{"data":{"1":{"id":1,"key":"Annie","name":"Annie","title":"the Dark Child","image":{"full":"Annie.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":288,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Dangerous, yet disarmingly precocious, Annie is a child mage with immense pyrokinetic power. Even in the shadows of the mountains north of Noxus, she is a magical outlier. Her natural affinity for fire manifested early in life through unpredictable, emotional outbursts, though she eventually learned to control these “tricks.” Her favorite includes the summoning of her beloved teddy bear, Tibbers, as a fiery beast hellbent on destruction. Lost in the perpetual innocence of childhood, Annie wanders the dark forests, always looking for someone to play with.","blurb":"Dangerous, yet disarmingly precocious, Annie is a child mage with immense pyrokinetic power. Even in the shadows of the mountains north of Noxus, she is a magical outlier. Her natural affinity for fire manifested early in life through unpredictable...","allytips":["Storing a stun for use with her ultimate can turn the tide of a team fight.","Striking killing blows on minions with Disintegrate enables Annie to farm extremely well early in the game.","Molten Shield is a good spell to cast to work up to Annie's stun, so sometimes it's beneficial to grab at least 1 rank in it early."],"enemytips":["Annie's summoned bear, Tibbers, burns opposing units around himself. Try to keep your distance from him after he's been summoned.","Summoner Smite can be used to help take down Tibbers.","Keep an eye out for a white, swirling power around Annie. It means she's ready to unleash her stun."]},"2":{"id":2,"key":"Olaf","name":"Olaf","title":"the Berserker","image":{"full":"Olaf.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":0,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"An unstoppable force of destruction, the axe-wielding Olaf wants nothing but to die in glorious combat. Hailing from the brutal Freljordian peninsula of Lokfar, he once received a prophecy foretelling his peaceful passing—a coward's fate, and a great insult among his people. Seeking death, and fueled by rage, he rampaged across the land, slaughtering scores of great warriors and legendary beasts in search of any opponent who could stop him. Now a brutal enforcer for the Winter's Claw, he seeks his end in the great wars to come.","blurb":"An unstoppable force of destruction, the axe-wielding Olaf wants nothing but to die in glorious combat. Hailing from the brutal Freljordian peninsula of Lokfar, he once received a prophecy foretelling his peaceful passing—a coward's fate, and a great...","allytips":["Olaf can combine Berserker Rage, Vicious Strikes, and Ragnarok at low life to become deceptively strong.","The bonus healing granted by Vicious Strikes amplifies your Life Steal from all sources as well as heals from allies."],"enemytips":["Olaf becomes more dangerous the lower life he is. Save your disables to finish him off.","Preventing Olaf from reaching his axe will minimize the amount of harassment he can cause in the laning phase.","Olaf has reduced defenses from damage during Ragnarok, despite being immune to disables. If you can't escape from Olaf during Ragnarok, try focusing your damage on him with your teammates."]},"3":{"id":3,"key":"Galio","name":"Galio","title":"the Colossus","image":{"full":"Galio.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":0,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Outside the gleaming city of Demacia, the stone colossus Galio keeps vigilant watch. Built as a bulwark against enemy mages, he often stands motionless for decades until the presence of powerful magic stirs him to life. Once activated, Galio makes the most of his time, savoring the thrill of a fight and the rare honor of defending his countrymen. But his triumphs are always bittersweet, for the magic he destroys is also his source of reanimation, and each victory leaves him dormant once again.","blurb":"Outside the gleaming city of Demacia, the stone colossus Galio keeps vigilant watch. Built as a bulwark against enemy mages, he often stands motionless for decades until the presence of powerful magic stirs him to life. Once activated, Galio makes the...","allytips":["You can release Shield of Durand even while crowd controlled.","You can use the minimap ally icons to cast Hero's Entrance.","You can use the step back from Justice Punch to dodge enemy spells."],"enemytips":["Galio moves slower when he is charging Shield of Durand.","Hero's Entrance can be interrupted before Galio jumps into the air.","Galio cannot traverse walls with Justice Punch."]},"4":{"id":4,"key":"TwistedFate","name":"Twisted Fate","title":"the Card Master","image":{"full":"TwistedFate.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":240,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Twisted Fate is an infamous cardsharp and swindler who has gambled and charmed his way across much of the known world, earning the enmity and admiration of the rich and foolish alike. He rarely takes things seriously, greeting each day with a mocking smile and an insouciant swagger. In every possible way, Twisted Fate always has an ace up his sleeve.","blurb":"Twisted Fate is an infamous cardsharp and swindler who has gambled and charmed his way across much of the known world, earning the enmity and admiration of the rich and foolish alike. He rarely takes things seriously, greeting each day with a mocking...","allytips":["Coordinate with your allies for the best time to use Destiny to ambush enemies.","Stealth characters often escape a battle with very low hit points. Take advantage of Destiny's ability to reveal stealthed units to finish them off.","Twisted Fate is viable as an Attack Damage or Ability Power character, letting him fit on many different team compositions."],"enemytips":["Focus on dodging Wild Cards early when your champion doesn't have the hit points to afford getting hit.","If you have low Health, use Destiny as an indicator to run to safety. It will give you a head start in escaping any possible ganks."]},"5":{"id":5,"key":"XinZhao","name":"Xin Zhao","title":"the Seneschal of Demacia","image":{"full":"XinZhao.png","sprite":"champion4.png","group":"champion","x":0,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"''Death is inevitable, one can only avoid defeat.''<br><br>Whenever Jarvan III, the king of Demacia, delivers one of his rallying speeches from the glinting marble balcony atop the Royal Palace, Xin Zhao is at his side. Coined the Seneschal of Demacia, Xin Zhao is the personal steward of the Lightshield Dynasty. His enigmatic, silent vigil has led to an abundance of conjecture concerning his ''secret life'' and origins. Whether it's ''Zaun double-agent'' tendered at the dinner table or ''indebted rune mage'' mused in the editorials of the ''Demacian Constant,'' Xin Zhao betrays no hints to sate the curiosity of the masses... for good reason.<br><br>Years ago, Noxus was renowned for a spectacle called The Fleshing. It was a gladiatorial event with a cruel twist: as a fighter won matches, his number of opponents (generally prisoners of war) fought simultaneously would increase. This meant eventual death for every contender, but with unparalleled glory. Xin Zhao, known then as Viscero, was slated to face 300 soldiers, nearly six times the previous record. This was clearly meant to be his final match.<br><br>Jarvan II, hearing of this unprecedented feat, infiltrated the arena to offer him an alternative: serve Demacia and punish those who ultimately sentence him to death in exchange for his freedom. Xin Zhao accepted, astonished that a king would risk his own life on his behalf. Under the cover of a prearranged Demacian assault on Noxus, Jarvan liberated Xin Zhao and his 300 opponents. During their retreat, Xin Zhao took a poisoned dart meant for Jarvan. This act of loyalty, from a man who vowed no allegiance, earned Xin Zhao a spot at his side until the day the king died.<br><br>Now in the service of his son, Jarvan III, Xin Zhao continues to fight for his adopted country and honor the legacy of the man who gave purpose to his life.","blurb":"''Death is inevitable, one can only avoid defeat.''<br><br>Whenever Jarvan III, the king of Demacia, delivers one of his rallying speeches from the glinting marble balcony atop the Royal Palace, Xin Zhao is at his side. Coined the Seneschal of Demacia...","allytips":["Xin Zhao is a great initiator to combat. Lead the front to start a fight and use your ultimate to do the most damage possible.","Try to position yourself so your ultimate's knockback is most effective."],"enemytips":["Xin Zhao is a powerful initiator with both his charge and ultimate dealing damage to all units around him. Try having your team stay spread out until he's used his ultimate.","Xin Zhao relies heavily on his Three Talon Strikes for damage and cooldown resets, so preventing him from finishing his combo will have a dramatic effect."]},"6":{"id":6,"key":"Urgot","name":"Urgot","title":"the Dreadnought","image":{"full":"Urgot.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":384,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Once a powerful Noxian headsman, Urgot was betrayed by the empire for which he had killed so many. Bound in iron chains, he was forced to learn the true meaning of strength in the Dredge—a prison mine deep beneath Zaun. Emerging in a disaster that spread chaos throughout the city, he now casts an imposing shadow over its criminal underworld. Raising his victims on the very chains that once enslaved him, he will purge his new home of the unworthy, making it a crucible of pain.","blurb":"Once a powerful Noxian headsman, Urgot was betrayed by the empire for which he had killed so many. Bound in iron chains, he was forced to learn the true meaning of strength in the Dredge—a prison mine deep beneath Zaun. Emerging in a disaster that...","allytips":["Pay attention to your individual leg's cooldowns, as they make for a signficiant portion of your damage","Land Corrosive Charge or Disdain to lock on to target's with Purge - a great way to trigger multiple legs in rapid succession.","Save Fear Beyond Death for opponents you know are already too weak to survive. It's especially good for picking off fleeing foes."],"enemytips":["Urgot relies heavily on blasting opponents with his legs, which have their own cooldowns and only detonate when he attacks in the direction they are facing. Avoid getting hit by multiple.","Urgot can deal and absorb tremendous amounts of damage with Purge, but slows himself while firing.","If you are struck by Fear Beyond Death, do your best to avoid falling below the execution threshold (25% of your Maximum Health) until the effect times out."]},"7":{"id":7,"key":"Leblanc","name":"LeBlanc","title":"the Deceiver","image":{"full":"Leblanc.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":432,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Mysterious even to other members of the Black Rose cabal, LeBlanc is but one of many names for a pale woman who has manipulated people and events since the earliest days of Noxus. Using her magic to mirror herself, the sorceress can appear to anyone, anywhere, and even be in many places at once. Always plotting just out of sight, LeBlanc's true motives are as inscrutable as her shifting identity.","blurb":"Mysterious even to other members of the Black Rose cabal, LeBlanc is but one of many names for a pale woman who has manipulated people and events since the earliest days of Noxus. Using her magic to mirror herself, the sorceress can appear to anyone...","allytips":["Distortion allows you to be aggressive with your other spells while being able to return to safety.","Using Distortion can help your positioning to land Ethereal Chains.","You can chain Sigil of Malice and Ethereal Chains to prevent characters with blink from escaping for up to 4 seconds."],"enemytips":["LeBlanc's ultimate can create fake LeBlancs during her spellcast or, rarely, at a distant position. ","The fake LeBlanc created at a distance will always run at the nearest Champion, cast a harmless spell, then immediately disappear.","Attacking LeBlanc first avoids most of her tricks, especially if she's recently used her dash, Distortion.","Stunning or silencing LeBlanc will prevent her from activating the return part of Distortion."]},"8":{"id":8,"key":"Vladimir","name":"Vladimir","title":"the Crimson Reaper","image":{"full":"Vladimir.png","sprite":"champion4.png","group":"champion","x":240,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"There is a temple hidden in the mountains between Noxus and the Tempest Flats, where the secrets of an ancient and terrifying sorcery are kept. The area surrounding the temple is littered with the exsanguinated corpses of those who have mistakenly wandered too close. These served only to pique the curiosity of Vladimir, when - in his youth - he trekked through these mountains during his flight from Noxus. A day earlier, the teenaged Vladimir had brutally murdered two boys his age, for no better reason than to enjoy the intoxicating scarlet bloom that surged forth. He realized immediately that he would never be able to suppress his murderous desires, and if he remained in Noxus, his foul deeds were sure to catch up with him. Without hesitation, he abandoned the city-state, and journeyed south.<br><br>The trail of bodies led him to a crumbling stone temple. Inside he found an aging monk who appraised him with eyes of pure crimson. Vladimir surprised the monk by returning the wicked gaze with zeal. Recognizing the boy's sinister craving, the monk taught Vladimir how to manipulate and control the fluid of life, often practicing on passing travelers. When it came time for Vladimir to learn the final lesson, the monk warned that failure would result in death. Vladimir did not fail, but success bore a grisly surprise. During the ritual, every drop of the monk's blood was drawn from his body and fused with Vladimir's, imbuing him with his master's magical essence, and that of every hemomancer before him. Left alone and suddenly without purpose, Vladimir resolved to return to Noxus, demanding enrollment in the League to prove the supremacy of his craft. When the Noxian High Command observed the gruesome fates which befell the palace guards, they elected to avail themselves of Vladimir's unsavory talents.<br><br>''That which runs through you will run you through.''<br>-- Vladimir","blurb":"There is a temple hidden in the mountains between Noxus and the Tempest Flats, where the secrets of an ancient and terrifying sorcery are kept. The area surrounding the temple is littered with the exsanguinated corpses of those who have mistakenly...","allytips":["Transfusion instantly deals damage to the enemy before healing Vladimir, making it one of the best last hitting tools in the game.","Cast Hemoplague where it will afflict the most units.","Sanguine Pool pops incoming missiles, so it can be used to dodge disables."],"enemytips":["Try to take Vladimir down before Hemoplague detonates, as it will heal him for each afflicted enemy Champion.","Making Vladimir use Sanguine Pool at the start of a fight will maximize the Health cost of the ability to him.","Items that counter Health stacking, such as Liandry's Torment and Blade of the Ruined King, are very effective against Vladimir."]},"9":{"id":9,"key":"Fiddlesticks","name":"Fiddlesticks","title":"the Harbinger of Doom","image":{"full":"Fiddlesticks.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":336,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Fiddlesticks is a ghastly, living scarecrow who stalks the darkness, wielding a cruel scythe and preying upon the unwary. Once a lonely man accused of bringing famine to his village, he was tied up and left to starve in his own barren field. Resurrected by the savage murder of crows that fed on his remains, Fiddlesticks now relishes terrorizing his victims before claiming their lives amid a flurry of feathers and blood-splattered beaks.","blurb":"Fiddlesticks is a ghastly, living scarecrow who stalks the darkness, wielding a cruel scythe and preying upon the unwary. Once a lonely man accused of bringing famine to his village, he was tied up and left to starve in his own barren field. Resurrected...","allytips":["Use Dark Wind to rack up many minion kills, and try to use Drain on minions to get the maximum health drain.","Use Terrify on enemies before starting up Crowstorm or Drain to ensure maximum damage.","Fiddlesticks is very fragile if you build AP items. Try to strike a balance between offense and defense with runes, masteries, and items."],"enemytips":["Avoid attacking while close to your allies. Dark Wind will bounce between you and your allies, increasing its damage.","If Fiddlesticks has used Crowstorm, try casting a stun or slow and moving out of range until the spell dissipates.","If Fiddlesticks is nowhere to be seen, watch out for an ambush Crowstorm from brush."]},"10":{"id":10,"key":"Kayle","name":"Kayle","title":"The Judicator","image":{"full":"Kayle.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":96,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"A great hero and the strongest among her kind, Kayle is an angelic warrior dedicated to purging those beyond redemption. After conflict divided her people, she took up her enchanted armor and flaming sword in the name of order, disowning her very flesh and blood in the process. When Kayle descends upon the field of battle, her justice is swift—for none can escape the light of divine and righteous fury.","blurb":"A great hero and the strongest among her kind, Kayle is an angelic warrior dedicated to purging those beyond redemption. After conflict divided her people, she took up her enchanted armor and flaming sword in the name of order, disowning her very flesh...","allytips":["Using Intervention on a high-DPS ally can turn the tides of battle by giving your ally free reign to attack. ","Kayle can effectively do large amounts of damage or support her allies depending on her item build. ","Kayle benefits greatly from Attack Damage and Ability Power, making hybrid items like Nashor's Tooth and Trinity Force very effective on her. ","If you wish to support your allies, items like Locket of the Iron Solari can help you assist teammates."],"enemytips":["Intervention only grants Kayle or her allies immunity to damage. Slows and stuns can still be applied, so trap them if they're being overzealous.","Kayle is usually a fragile target. If you see her ultimate cast on an ally, switch to attacking her.","Be sure to look at what items Kayle is building to determine what role she is fulfilling on her team."]},"11":{"id":11,"key":"MasterYi","name":"Master Yi","title":"the Wuju Bladesman","image":{"full":"MasterYi.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":432,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Through the ancient martial art of Wuju, Master Yi has tempered his body and sharpened his mind until thought and action have become one. Though he chooses to enter into violence as a last resort, the grace and speed with which he wields his blade ensures resolution is always swift. As the last living practitioner of Wuju, Master Yi has devoted his life to finding able pupils to carry on the legacy of his lost people. <br><br>Even before Yi mastered Wuju, he was considered one of the most skilled practitioners of the mystical martial art. He would soon prove his mastery when word of a massive Noxian invasion reached his remote village. Yi swept across the battlefields of Ionia, turning back the tide of Noxus's vast infantry with swift and deadly strikes, much to the embarrassment of Noxian High Command. Recognizing the threat the Wuju disciples posed to their invasion, the Noxians chose to unleash a nightmarish chemical attack on the home of the deadly art. Those who somehow survived the poisonous concoction had their minds twisted beyond repair. Yi's home was left in ruin.<br><br>At the war's conclusion, Yi returned to the grotesque remains of his village. There he became the attack's final casualty. Slain in spirit, if not in body, Yi clung to the only feeling left within his heart: vengeance. Driven only by his desire to punish those who'd destroyed his home, Yi spent years training in seclusion. He became a deadlier swordsman than he had ever been, but true mastery of Wuju still eluded him.<br><br>At the height of Yi's frustration, a monkey of unusually noble bearing interrupted his training. Standing as straight and tall as a man, the monkey watched and mimicked Yi's movements. Yi shooed the monkey away, but the agile creature took great amusement in turning Yi's own techniques against him. Gradually, Yi felt his anger subside as he sparred with the playful animal, and when the burden of his hatred had fully lifted, he found he had caught the monkey by his tail. Yi then understood that he would never master Wuju so long as he pursued it for vengeance, and as he let go of the monkey, he also released his desire to shed his enemy's blood.<br><br> Yi thanked the monkey for showing him what he'd been blind to, and was surprised when the creature actually replied. He wished to learn Yi's art of fighting. It was an odd request, but through it Yi saw his new path: the way to honor the memory of his lost people was to pass their teachings on to a new generation.<br><br>''The edge of the sharpest blade is no match for the calm of the peaceful mind.'' <br>-- Master Yi","blurb":"Through the ancient martial art of Wuju, Master Yi has tempered his body and sharpened his mind until thought and action have become one. Though he chooses to enter into violence as a last resort, the grace and speed with which he wields his blade...","allytips":["If you're in a lane against ranged players, leveling up Meditate can allow you to stay in the lane longer and gain levels faster than they will.","Wuju Style is very strong early for last hitting minions.","Try using Alpha Strike on a minion in front of an enemy champion so you are placed at a safe distance at the end of the spell."],"enemytips":["Meditate is an effective method of healing damage over time, but Master Yi is susceptible to coordinated team ganks early in the game.","If Master Yi tries to farm with Alpha Strike, hit him a few times so he has to use mana with Meditate to heal.","Although Master Yi cannot be slowed while using Highlander, other disables can stop him in his tracks."]},"12":{"id":12,"key":"Alistar","name":"Alistar","title":"the Minotaur","image":{"full":"Alistar.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":144,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"As the mightiest warrior to ever emerge from the Minotaur tribes of the Great Barrier, Alistar defended his tribe from Valoran's many dangers; that is, until the coming of the Noxian army. Alistar was lured from his village by the machinations of Keiran Darkwill, General Boram Darkwill's youngest son and commander of the Noxian expeditionary force. When Alistar returned, he found his village burning and his family slain. Bellowing with rage, he charged an entire regiment of Noxus' elite, slaughtering them by the hundreds. Only the intervention of some of Noxus' most skilled summoners checked Alistar's rage. Brought in chains to Noxus, Alistar spent the intervening years as a gladiator in the Fleshing, pitted in endless battle for the entertainment of Noxus' wealthy leaders.<br><br>Alistar's once noble soul slowly became twisted, and he would have been driven to insanity if not for Ayelia, a young servant girl who befriended him and eventually arranged for his escape. Suddenly free, Alistar joined the newly formed League of Legends to fight as a champion, hoping to one day exact his final vengeance upon Noxus and find the girl who had renewed his hope. Initially unwilling to cater to his celebrity status as a champion, Alistar has since discovered that there is power in fame, and he has become a vocal advocate for those whom the Noxian government treads upon. He also calls to light things that the Noxian military would prefer remain hidden -- something that has made him very unpopular with Noxus' nobles. His charitable work has earned him several philanthropic awards, which serve as an interesting contrast to the rage and destruction he brings to the League of Legends.<br><br>If you intend to grab the bull by the horns as a summoner, Alistar might have something to say about that.","blurb":"As the mightiest warrior to ever emerge from the Minotaur tribes of the Great Barrier, Alistar defended his tribe from Valoran's many dangers; that is, until the coming of the Noxian army. Alistar was lured from his village by the machinations of Keiran...","allytips":["Using Pulverize can allow you to establish better positioning for Headbutt.","Movement speed is very important on Alistar. Consider which boots to buy carefully.","Using Flash can allow you catch your target off guard to knock them back into your allies with Pulverize and Headbutt."],"enemytips":["Alistar is very disruptive but very tough - try to target more fragile damage dealers.","Watch out for the Pulverize-Headbutt combo when around turrets.","When Alistar uses his ultimate, it's often better to move back and wait until the effect wears off before attacking him."]},"13":{"id":13,"key":"Ryze","name":"Ryze","title":"the Rune Mage","image":{"full":"Ryze.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":144,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Widely considered one of the most adept sorcerers on Runeterra, Ryze is an ancient, hard-bitten archmage with an impossibly heavy burden to bear. Armed with immense arcane power and a boundless constitution, he tirelessly hunts for World Runes—fragments of the raw magic that once shaped the world from nothingness. He must retrieve these artifacts before they fall into the wrong hands, for Ryze understands the horrors they could unleash on Runeterra.","blurb":"Widely considered one of the most adept sorcerers on Runeterra, Ryze is an ancient, hard-bitten archmage with an impossibly heavy burden to bear. Armed with immense arcane power and a boundless constitution, he tirelessly hunts for World Runes—fragments...","allytips":["Use Overload's passive to optimize for maximum damage or maximum survivability.","Spell Flux's short cooldown allows it to be used to spread Flux to many enemies.","Ryze can move and cast other spells while Realm Warp is charging without cancelling the portal."],"enemytips":["Ryze is especially dangerous to opponents that are marked with Flux.","Use Realm Warp's windup time to figure out how to deal with what may be coming out of the portal.","Crowd controlling Ryze during Realm Warp's windup will cancel the portal."]},"14":{"id":14,"key":"Sion","name":"Sion","title":"The Undead Juggernaut","image":{"full":"Sion.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":432,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"BLOOD.<br><br>SMELL IT.<br><br>WANT. ACHING. NEED!<br><br>CLOSE NOW. THEY COME.<br><br>NO CHAINS? FREE! KILL!<br><br>IN REACH. YES! DIE! DIE!<br><br>Gone. Too quick. No fight. More. I want... more.<br><br>A voice? Unfamiliar. I see him. The Grand General. My general.<br><br>He leads. I follow. Marching. To where? I should know. I can't remember.<br><br>It all bleeds together. Does it matter? Noxus conquers. The rest? Trivial. So long...  since I've tasted victory.<br><br>The war wagon rocks. Rattles. A cramped cage. Pointless ceremony. The waiting. Maddening. Faster, dogs!<br><br>There. Banners. Demacians and their walls. Cowards. Their gates will shatter. Thoughts of the massacre come easily.<br><br>Who gave the order to halt? The underlings don't answer. No familiar faces. If I do not remember, neither will history.<br><br>The cage is opened. Finally! No more waiting. WE CHARGE!<br><br>Slings and arrows? The weapons of children! Their walls will not save them!<br><br>I can taste their fear. They shrink at every blow as their barricades splinter. SOON!<br><br>Noxian drums. Demacian screams. Glory isn't accolades; glory is hot blood on your hands! This is life!<br><br>A thousand shattered corpses lie at my feet, and Demacian homes burn all around me. It's over too quickly! Just one more...<br><br>The men stare. There's fear in their eyes. If they're afraid to look upon victory, I should pluck those craven eyes out. There is no fear in the Grand General's eyes, only approval. He is pleased with this conquest.<br><br>Walking the field with the Grand General, surveying the carnage, I ache for another foe. He is hobbled, a leg wound from the battle? If it pains him, he does not show it. A true Noxian. I do not like his pet, though; it picks over the dead, having earned nothing. His war hounds were more fitting company.<br><br>Demacia will be within our grasp soon. I can feel it. I am ready to march. The Grand General insists that I rest. How can I rest when my enemies still live?<br><br>Why do we mill about? The waiting eats at me. I'm left to my own devices. The bird watches. It's unsettling. Were it anyone else's, I would crush it.<br><br>Fatigue sets in. I've never felt so... tired.<br><br>Boram? Is that you? What are you whispering?<br><br>Where am I?<br><br>Captured? Kenneled like some dog. How?<br><br>There was... the battle, the razing of the fortress, the quiet of the aftermath. Were we ambushed? I can't remember.<br><br>I was wounded. I can feel the ragged gash... but no pain. They thought me dead. Now, I am their prize. Fate is laughing. I will not be caged! They will regret sparing me.<br><br>Demacian worms! They parrot kind words, but they are ruthless all the same. This place is a dank pit. They bring no food. There is no torture. They do not make a show of me. I am left to rot.<br><br>I remember my finest hour. I held a king by his throat and felt the final beat of his heart through my tightening grasp. I don't remember letting go. Is this your vengeance, Jarvan?<br><br>I hear the triumphal march. Boots on stone. Faint, through the dungeon walls. The cadence of Noxian drums. I shall be free. Demacian blood will run in the streets!<br><br>No one came. I heard no struggle. No retreat. Did I imagine it?<br><br>There is no aching in this stump. I barely noticed the iron boot. It's caked in rust.<br><br>When did I lose my leg?<br><br>I still smell the blood. Battle. It brings comfort.<br><br>The hunger gnaws. I have not slept. Time crawls. So tired.<br><br>How long?<br><br>So dark. This pit. I remember. Grand General. His whispering. What was it?<br><br>Not who I think.<br><br>Fading. Mustn't forget.<br><br>Message. Cut. Remember.<br><br>''SION – Beware ravens.''<br><br>FREE ME!<br><br>BLOOD.","blurb":"BLOOD.<br><br>SMELL IT.<br><br>WANT. ACHING. NEED!<br><br>CLOSE NOW. THEY COME.<br><br>NO CHAINS? FREE! KILL!<br><br>IN REACH. YES! DIE! DIE!<br><br>Gone. Too quick. No fight. More. I want... more.<br><br>A voice? Unfamiliar. I see him. The Grand...","allytips":["You only have very slight turning ability during Unstoppable Onslaught, so make sure to use it in straight paths.","Roar of the Slayer is a great setup ability to land a very powerful Decimating Smash.","The Soul Furnace buff displays how much shield strength is remaining, use this information to time its explosion perfectly."],"enemytips":["Even if Sion still hits a Decimating Smash, making him release the charge earlier reduces its impact.","Use the time after Sion has died to reposition and prepare for his return."]},"15":{"id":15,"key":"Sivir","name":"Sivir","title":"the Battle Mistress","image":{"full":"Sivir.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":0,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Sivir is a renowned fortune hunter and mercenary captain who plies her trade in the deserts of Shurima. Armed with her legendary jeweled crossblade, she has fought and won countless battles for those who can afford her exorbitant price. Known for her fearless resolve and endless ambition, she prides herself on recovering buried treasures from the perilous tombs of Shurima—for a generous bounty. With ancient forces stirring the very bones of Shurima, Sivir finds herself torn between conflicting destinies.","blurb":"Sivir is a renowned fortune hunter and mercenary captain who plies her trade in the deserts of Shurima. Armed with her legendary jeweled crossblade, she has fought and won countless battles for those who can afford her exorbitant price. Known for her...","allytips":["Sivir's Boomerang Blade returns to her after reaching the max range, so you can shift position to hit enemies who would otherwise have evaded it.","Ricochet resets Sivir's basic attack timer on activation, so activating this immediately after landing a normal basic attack will maximize damage output.","Try saving Spell Shield for enemy abilities that can disable you such as stuns and roots."],"enemytips":["Boomerang Blade costs a lot of mana to cast, so dodging it sets Sivir back. If it hits you on the way out, avoid its path on the way back.","Sivir is a powerful pushing champion, so leaving her unattended in a lane for too long will often result in your turrets being destroyed.","When laning against Sivir, it is possible to throw off the timing of her Spell Shield by faking an advance, then backing off."]},"16":{"id":16,"key":"Soraka","name":"Soraka","title":"the Starchild","image":{"full":"Soraka.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":144,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"A healer gifted with the magic of the stars, Soraka holds all living creatures close to her heart. She was once a celestial being, but she sacrificed her immortality and entered the world of mortals. So long as evil threatens life in Valoran, Soraka will not allow herself peace.<br><br>Soraka lived for centuries in an enchanted grove. A being of the stars, she healed the wounded and sick that sought her out. One man called Warwick came to her grove and begged her to heal his wife, who lay lifeless in his arms. His despair touched Soraka's heart. Though it was too late to save his wife, she offered to help heal the pain of his loss. Unwilling to let go of his grief Warwick ran from the grove, but returned over the following days to hear Soraka's guidance. She began to grow attached to the grieving man. One day Warwick told her he had found the men who killed his wife. He believed revenge would heal his pain - and if he died fighting, he would at least find peace. Though she pleaded with him, Warwick ignored her and left the grove. The voices of the stars warned her not to follow him, but Soraka had to intervene.<br><br>She stepped into the mortal world for the first time, and soon found Warwick desperately fighting a group of men. She tried to heal him, but for every wound she closed, the men inflicted two more. Soraka realized that she would have to fight to save her friend. The stars screamed in her mind, telling her not to use her powers for harm. Ignoring their warning, she struck the attackers with a flash of brilliant light. Crying out in terror and shielding their eyes from her divine radiance, they fled. Soraka's celestial form faded and the stars fell silent - for her transgression, she became mortal. She still felt the power of the stars within her, but they no longer offered her guidance. She took comfort in Warwick's safety, gently healing his wounds, but the man she had called her friend slipped a dagger between her ribs. As her blood spilled, Soraka realized he had fooled her, and everything he had done was a complicated ruse. Feeling humiliated and betrayed she called once more on the power of the stars, searing his flesh and cursing his cruelty. He retreated with an agonized howl, leaving Soraka to reflect upon her fate. Though her life had changed, she felt empowered and renewed with a singular purpose. No longer bound to the grove, Soraka set out into the mortal world, vowing to heal the wounded and protect the helpless.<br><br>''The cruelty of one will not blind me to the suffering of many.''<br>-- Soraka","blurb":"A healer gifted with the magic of the stars, Soraka holds all living creatures close to her heart. She was once a celestial being, but she sacrificed her immortality and entered the world of mortals. So long as evil threatens life in Valoran, Soraka...","allytips":["Soraka is a powerful ally in battle, using her strong healing to keep the party moving forward.","You can use Wish on your allies from across the map to save them from otherwise fatal events.","Equinox can be used as a powerful zoning tool to keep enemies at bay."],"enemytips":["Focus on attacking Soraka when she ever ventures to the frontline to heal her allies.","Take advantage of Soraka's long cooldown on Equinox if she uses it to harass.","It's easier to focus Soraka than the ally she is healing."]},"17":{"id":17,"key":"Teemo","name":"Teemo","title":"the Swift Scout","image":{"full":"Teemo.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":0,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Undeterred by even the most dangerous and threatening of obstacles, Teemo scouts the world with boundless enthusiasm and a cheerful spirit. A yordle with an unwavering sense of morality, he takes pride in following the Bandle Scout's Code, sometimes with such eagerness that he is unaware of the broader consequences of his actions. Though some say the existence of the Scouts is questionable, one thing is for certain: Teemo's conviction is nothing to be trifled with.","blurb":"Undeterred by even the most dangerous and threatening of obstacles, Teemo scouts the world with boundless enthusiasm and a cheerful spirit. A yordle with an unwavering sense of morality, he takes pride in following the Bandle Scout's Code, sometimes...","allytips":["Teemo's mushrooms can be used to farm creep waves very effectively.","Place your mushrooms at key locations on the map, such as by the Dragon or Baron Nashor, to reveal when your enemies might be attempting to kill them."],"enemytips":["Teemo's Toxic Shot punishes players who get hit and back out, so stay at a safe range until you're ready to commit.","It can be valuable to use Oracle's Lens(Trinket) to destroy mushrooms around key locations."]},"18":{"id":18,"key":"Tristana","name":"Tristana","title":"the Yordle Gunner","image":{"full":"Tristana.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":96,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Greatness comes in all shapes and sizes, as proven by this diminutive, cannon-wielding yordle. In a world fraught with turmoil, Tristana refuses to back down from any challenge. She represents the pinnacle of martial proficiency, unwavering courage, and boundless optimism. For Trist and her gun, Boomer, every mission is a chance to prove that heroes do exist.","blurb":"Greatness comes in all shapes and sizes, as proven by this diminutive, cannon-wielding yordle. In a world fraught with turmoil, Tristana refuses to back down from any challenge. She represents the pinnacle of martial proficiency, unwavering courage, and...","allytips":["Her massive gun allows Tristana to fire on targets at a great distance. Utilize this to prevent your enemies from ever laying a hand on you.","Use Rocket Jump after you have stacked up your Explosive Charge on an enemy to finish them off with a burst of damage.","Use Rapid Fire to help stack up your Explosive Charge on enemy champions."],"enemytips":["If you see Tristana activate Rapid Fire in a fight, stun her and try to back off until the spell dissipates.","Stand away from your creeps in a lane to take less collateral damage from Explosive Charge."]},"19":{"id":19,"key":"Warwick","name":"Warwick","title":"the Uncaged Wrath of Zaun","image":{"full":"Warwick.png","sprite":"champion4.png","group":"champion","x":336,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Warwick is a monster who hunts the gray alleys of Zaun. Transformed by agonizing experiments, his body is fused with an intricate system of chambers and pumps, machinery filling his veins with alchemical rage. Bursting out of the shadows, he preys upon those criminals who terrorize the city's depths. Warwick is drawn to blood, and driven mad by its scent. None who spill it can escape him.","blurb":"Warwick is a monster who hunts the gray alleys of Zaun. Transformed by agonizing experiments, his body is fused with an intricate system of chambers and pumps, machinery filling his veins with alchemical rage. Bursting out of the shadows, he preys upon...","allytips":["Follow your Blood Hunt trails to low health enemy champions.","Infinite Duress (R)'s distance scales with any movement speed you gain, even from ally buffs and summoner spells.","Jaws of the Beast (Q) will follow enemies who run, dash or teleport if you keep the button held down."],"enemytips":["Warwick's attacks heal him at low health. Save your disables to finish him off.","Warwick is empowered versus low health enemies. Manage your health to keep him at bay.","Warwick's ultimate cast range scales with his movement speed."]},"20":{"id":20,"key":"Nunu","name":"Nunu","title":"the Yeti Rider","image":{"full":"Nunu.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":432,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Sometimes bonds of friendship become stronger than even bonds of blood. When those bonds link a fearless boy to a fearsome Yeti, the bond becomes a force to be reckoned with. Given the responsibility of taming a terrifying beast, Nunu forged a friendship where others would have forged chains. Now Nunu and his burly pal Willump are an inseparable pair who combine youthful exuberance and brute strength with the mythical powers of the Yeti to overcome obstacles insurmountable to any ordinary duo. <br><br> Nunu had only the vaguest memories of his parents or the time before he was part of the reclusive Frostguard tribe. Never welcome among his caretakers, Nunu's wanderlust and compassion often put him at odds with the tribe's elders and the boy frequently dreamt of places far beyond the shadow of the Frostguard citadel. Sometimes he would do more than just dream, much to the frustration of his minders. This was never more apparent than when Nunu was apprenticed to the tribe's beastmaster and charged with the care of the creatures under his yoke. <br><br> The Frostguard held a menagerie of the Freljord's wildlife at their beck and call, but unique among their collection was the Yeti: an uncommon creature with mystical qualities and raw physical strength. The beastmaster taught Nunu that it was only a lean diet of plants and regular whippings that kept the vicious beast tame, but the more time Nunu spent caring for the creature, the more he learned that the Yeti was no feral monster.<br><br> As he saw his new friend Willump growing weaker and sicker, Nunu began to sneak the Yeti scraps of meat, hoping to restore his health. Day by day, Willump grew stronger and not the slightest bit savage - contrary to the beastmaster's claims. Nunu had hopes of convincing him that the Yeti posed no danger, but it wasn't meant to be. The next time Nunu came to deliver Willump a meal, he found the Yeti's cage shattered, with only a crude drawing inside signaling the Yeti's farewell. Without hesitation, Nunu rushed into the wilderness in search of his friend.<br><br> When Nunu finally caught up to Willump, he found the Yeti cornered by the beastmaster alongside a group of Frostguard warriors. Afraid that the men would hurt his friend, Nunu threw himself between the Yeti and the beastmaster's lash, but the brutal man would not stay his hand. As the furious beastmaster raised his whip once more, the Yeti swelled up with uncharacteristic fury. Even after so much mistreatment, it wasn't concern for himself but for the boy who'd shown him kindness that finally pushed Willump too far. The Yeti raged and left the man bloodied in the snow. <br><br>Terrified by Willump's fury, the remaining Frostguard warriors fled. Nunu realized there was no going back. He yelled at Willump to run before the men returned to kill him, but the Yeti refused to leave the young boy. Nunu was faced with a hard choice: abandon his sole friend and lead a life of captivity with the Frostguard, or strike out into the harsh wilds and leave behind the only home he knew. Nunu chose the only path that made sense. Leaping onto the back of the mighty Yeti, Nunu joined Willump in his great escape. The pair took their first steps into the wide world from which they had been kept for so long. <br><br>''Willump and I have a whole world to explore. Don't get in our way!'' <br>-- Nunu","blurb":"Sometimes bonds of friendship become stronger than even bonds of blood. When those bonds link a fearless boy to a fearsome Yeti, the bond becomes a force to be reckoned with. Given the responsibility of taming a terrifying beast, Nunu forged a...","allytips":["Consume allows Nunu to stay in a lane against ranged opponents.","You can choose to interrupt Absolute Zero early for partial damage if an opponent is about to run out of range.","It's often beneficial to delay the casting of Absolute Zero until the initial round of disables are used. Try to hang back before rushing into a team fight."],"enemytips":["Nunu's Blood Boil allows its target to run away from fights. Make sure to snare and stun any target with Blood Boil on.","Interrupting the charge up on Absolute Zero will lower the amount of damage your team takes.","Using Summoner Flash is a surefire way to escape Absolute Zero.","With only 1 single target ability that can break a spell shield, Banshee's Veil is extremely effective against Nunu."]},"21":{"id":21,"key":"MissFortune","name":"Miss Fortune","title":"the Bounty Hunter","image":{"full":"MissFortune.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":0,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"A Bilgewater captain famed for her looks but feared for her ruthlessness, Sarah Fortune paints a stark figure among the hardened criminals of the port city. As a child, she witnessed the reaver king Gangplank murder her family—an act she brutally avenged years later, blowing up his flagship while he was still aboard. Those who underestimate her will face a beguiling and unpredictable opponent… and, likely, a bullet or two in their guts.","blurb":"A Bilgewater captain famed for her looks but feared for her ruthlessness, Sarah Fortune paints a stark figure among the hardened criminals of the port city. As a child, she witnessed the reaver king Gangplank murder her family—an act she brutally...","allytips":["Miss Fortune ramps up speed if she hasn't recently taken damage. Avoid getting hit to move very fast.","Use Double Up on the furthest enemy minion if enemy champions are hiding in back; it will bounce to them for lots of damage.","Make sure to utilize Love Tap while Strut is on cooldown to maximize the active's availability."],"enemytips":["Miss Fortune's speed boost is removed if she is damaged by an enemy.","Miss Fortune is easy to kill if you can reach her; target her first in team fights."]},"22":{"id":22,"key":"Ashe","name":"Ashe","title":"the Frost Archer","image":{"full":"Ashe.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":336,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Iceborn warmother of the Avarosan tribe, Ashe commands the most populous horde in the north. Stoic, intelligent, and idealistic, yet uncomfortable with her role as leader, she taps into the ancestral magics of her lineage to wield a bow of True Ice. With her people's belief that she is the mythological hero Avarosa reincarnated, Ashe hopes to unify the Freljord once more by retaking their ancient, tribal lands.","blurb":"Iceborn warmother of the Avarosan tribe, Ashe commands the most populous horde in the north. Stoic, intelligent, and idealistic, yet uncomfortable with her role as leader, she taps into the ancestral magics of her lineage to wield a bow of True Ice...","allytips":["Try to fire Enchanted Crystal Arrow in the same direction enemies are moving, so it is more likely to hit.","Volley arrows are blocked by the first enemy they hit, so keep your distance to avoid having them all absorbed by enemy frontliners.","Hawkshot reveals units in brush. If a team fight is occuring in the jungle it can give you a significant advantage."],"enemytips":["Ashe has very few defensive options, and she's a good target to gank.","Be wary of moving around the map alone if Ashe has not recently cast her Enchanted Crystal Arrow."]},"23":{"id":23,"key":"Tryndamere","name":"Tryndamere","title":"the Barbarian King","image":{"full":"Tryndamere.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":192,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Fueled by his unbridled fury and rage, Tryndamere cuts his way through the tundra, mastering the art of battle by challenging the Freljord's greatest warriors. The wrathful barbarian seeks revenge on the one who decimated his clan and strikes down all those who stand between him and his final retribution.<br><br>Struggling to survive in the harsh, frostbitten Freljord, the young Tryndamere and his people warred with other tribes over the scarce resources of the land. One such battle changed his life forever. Raiders ambushed Tryndamere's clan in the dead of night, and though his warriors were able to push the first wave of attackers back, they weren't prepared for the dark figure that next stepped forth. He wielded a cruel, living sword, and inspired an unhinged bloodlust in the invaders with his unearthly magic. Tryndamere's tribe was overrun within moments. With no hope of defeating the enigmatic being, Tryndamere threw himself at certain death. The dark figure swatted him aside, mortally wounding the young barbarian.<br><br>Tryndamere saw death and destruction engulf his home as his life slipped away. No one was left standing - only the screams of the dying remained. Unable to surrender to death, Tryndamere gave in fully to his wrath. His blood boiled and his anger consumed him, banishing his mortality. He staggered to his feet - barely able to take hold of his sword - steeling himself for the decisive confrontation with the shadowy being. But the dark figure did not even lift his blade, and instead gave Tryndamere a knowing smile as he withdrew into the shadows. That was the last time the barbarian ever saw his nemesis.<br><br>A man robbed of his home and his people, Tryndamere wandered across the Freljord for years, vowing to forge himself into a brutal instrument of revenge. He visited all the tribes in the frozen wastes, besting each of their warriors until there were none left to challenge. In doing so, he mastered the barbarian ways of war and harnessed his anger as a force to be reckoned with. With sword in hand and rage in his heart, he is now on an undying quest for vengeance against the one who destroyed the life he once knew. <br><br>''Rage is my weapon.''<br> -- Tryndamere","blurb":"Fueled by his unbridled fury and rage, Tryndamere cuts his way through the tundra, mastering the art of battle by challenging the Freljord's greatest warriors. The wrathful barbarian seeks revenge on the one who decimated his clan and strikes down all...","allytips":["Delaying the activation of Undying Rage is a very effective way to make an enemy champion over-commit to trying to kill you.","Bloodlust is an excellent way to heal Tryndamere. Try not to let it fade off before you activate it.","If the enemy is stacking Armor, try building items like Last Whisper or Youmuu's Ghostblade."],"enemytips":["Try harassing Tryndamere early so he can't kill minions and heal with Bloodlust.","Remember, Tryndamere can only slow you if you are facing away from him.","Most of Tryndamere's damage is physical. If he's getting too strong, consider buying a Thornmail."]},"24":{"id":24,"key":"Jax","name":"Jax","title":"Grandmaster at Arms","image":{"full":"Jax.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":144,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Unmatched in both his skill with unique armaments and his biting sarcasm, Jax is the last known weapons master of Icathia. After his homeland was laid low by its own hubris in unleashing the Void, Jax and his kind vowed to protect what little remained. As magic now rises in the world, this slumbering threat stirs once more, and Jax roams Valoran, wielding the last light of Icathia and testing all warriors he meets to see if any are strong enough to stand beside him...","blurb":"Unmatched in both his skill with unique armaments and his biting sarcasm, Jax is the last known weapons master of Icathia. After his homeland was laid low by its own hubris in unleashing the Void, Jax and his kind vowed to protect what little remained...","allytips":["Jax can Leap Strike to friendly units, including wards. You can use them to plan your escape.","Jax benefits greatly from items that have both Ability Power and Attack Damage such as Guinsoo's Rageblade and Hextech Gunblade."],"enemytips":["Try to engage him in short bursts instead of going toe-to-toe with him. Preventing him from attacking consecutively drastically lowers his damage output.","Jax can dodge all incoming attacks for a very short amount of time and stuns enemies in melee range when it ends. Wait to strike him until after his dodge is finished."]},"25":{"id":25,"key":"Morgana","name":"Morgana","title":"Fallen Angel","image":{"full":"Morgana.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":144,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Driven by vindictive obsession, Morgana is a potent mistress of suffering and the black arts. Once a being of grace and light, she was ripped from her kind during an ancient conflict that broke her soul, turning her into the cruel tormentor she is today. Comforted by a prophecy that claims she will strike the final blow and gain her revenge, Morgana lies in wait, her lust for power growing endlessly.","blurb":"Driven by vindictive obsession, Morgana is a potent mistress of suffering and the black arts. Once a being of grace and light, she was ripped from her kind during an ancient conflict that broke her soul, turning her into the cruel tormentor she is today...","allytips":["Shrewd use of Black Shield can determine the outcome of team fights.","Items that provide survivability allow Morgana to become extremely difficult to kill in conjunction with Black Shield and Soul Shackles.","Tormented Soil is an excellent farming tool if you're by yourself in a lane."],"enemytips":["Tormented Soil deals tons of damage to units missing large amounts of Health. When low on Health, be wary of Morgana's attempts to trap you within its reach.","Morgana often needs to land Dark Binding to setup her other attacks. Use your minions as shields against Dark Binding."]},"26":{"id":26,"key":"Zilean","name":"Zilean","title":"the Chronokeeper","image":{"full":"Zilean.png","sprite":"champion4.png","group":"champion","x":288,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"In the wastelands of Urtistan, there was once a great city. It perished long ago in a terrible Rune War, like most of the lands below the Great Barrier. Nevertheless, one man survived: a sorcerer named Zilean. Being obsessed with time, it was only fitting that he dwelled in the city's Clock Tower. As the havoc of the war neared his home, Zilean experimented with powerful temporal magic to divine all possible futures, hoping to discover a peaceful solution. But Zilean's enchantments affected his perception of the passage of time, and he was in a contemplative stasis when Urtistan was set upon by an entire phalanx of dark summoner-knights of unknown affiliation. By the time he realized his error, Urtistan was nothing more than smoldering debris. The summoners who were responsible for its destruction had wisely left the Clock Tower unharmed, both to avoid drawing Zilean's attention and to torment him for his oversight.<br><br>Zilean barely had time to grieve the momentous loss before he learned that his dangerous research had a cruel side effect: chrono-displasia. This mystical disease granted him immortality, but detached his consciousness from its anchor in the present time. He now mentally drifts through time, from any point he has already lived to the present, unable to impact the events which unfold. The most torturous aspect of this curse is that Zilean sometimes experiences Urtistan as it once was and the rest of the time resides in its lonely ruins. Only the powerful summoning magic employed by members of the League of Legends has been able to treat this condition, and Zilean has joined in hopes of finding a cure, and thereafter a way to save his people.<br><br>''There is no greater grief than for a loss that is yet to come.''<br>-- Zilean","blurb":"In the wastelands of Urtistan, there was once a great city. It perished long ago in a terrible Rune War, like most of the lands below the Great Barrier. Nevertheless, one man survived: a sorcerer named Zilean. Being obsessed with time, it was only...","allytips":["You can combine the use of Time Bomb and Rewind to place two Time Bombs on a target quickly. Placing the second bomb will detonate the first and stun all nearby enemies.","Time Warp is an effective way to enable allies to finish off enemies, or escape from a losing battle.","Chronoshift is a powerful deterrent to attacking your carries, but casting Chronoshift too early in a fight can cause the enemy to switch targets too soon, making it less effective."],"enemytips":["If you're able to match Zilean's speed, it can sometimes be beneficial to wait until his ultimate has faded before landing the killing blow.","Zilean is fragile if a team focuses on him, but otherwise he's very difficult to kill. Commit to killing him as a team."]},"27":{"id":27,"key":"Singed","name":"Singed","title":"the Mad Chemist","image":{"full":"Singed.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":384,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Singed descended from a long line of Zaun's revered chemists. Even in his youth, his talent for concocting potions far outstripped that of his peers, and he quickly distinguished himself from his less extraordinary chemist compatriots. It came as no surprise to anyone when he was selected for apprenticeship by the infamous Warwick, master apothecary on a lucrative retainer with the Noxian military during their campaign against Ionia. Within Warwick's laboratories, Singed toiled without end, rapidly absorbing every detail of his predecessor's deadly craft. Singed had little concern for the death and destruction that was the fruit of his labors. By the time the curse of lycanthropy descended to claim his master, Singed was poised and eager to make the transition from workhorse to innovator; he was ready to share his genius by bringing a new brand of suffering to the Ionian front. His zeal for progress was unquenchable, and when suitable test subjects proved to be in short supply, the eager chemist was often thought to turn his volatile mixtures on his own flesh.<br><br>When the uneasy peace created by the League of Legends settled on the world, Singed journeyed to the one place where he was still able to showcase his beloved craft: the Institute of War. By this time he was barely even a man, his body both ruined and sustained by his ingenious craft. A thousand burns - accidents of shadow and flame - mar his ravaged form, and exposure to such harsh conditions has deadened his nerves, hardened his body, and strengthened his physique, transforming him into a veritable juggernaut. This, combined with a formidable arsenal of deadly concoctions, makes Singed a force to be reckoned with on the Fields of Justice.<br><br>''My deadliest dose shall bear my patron's name!''<br>-- Singed, having just christened the Insanity Potion","blurb":"Singed descended from a long line of Zaun's revered chemists. Even in his youth, his talent for concocting potions far outstripped that of his peers, and he quickly distinguished himself from his less extraordinary chemist compatriots. It came as no...","allytips":["Poison Trail is very effective at farming and harassing, allowing Singed to dominate the flow of whatever lane he's in.","Use Insanity Potion to trick your opponents into chasing you through your Poison Trail.","Flinging enemies into your tower can deal heavy amounts of damage to them."],"enemytips":["Keep your distance to avoid being Flung back into Singed's allies.","Singed needs to run close to your team to be effective. Try to take advantage of this by using crowd control effects on him while attacking his allies.","Be careful when chasing Singed. He's very difficult to bring down, and can leave his Poison Trail to damage you in your pursuit."]},"28":{"id":28,"key":"Evelynn","name":"Evelynn","title":"Agony's Embrace","image":{"full":"Evelynn.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":240,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Within the dark seams of Runeterra, the demon Evelynn searches for her next victim. She lures in prey with the voluptuous façade of a human female, but once a person succumbs to her charms, Evelynn's true form is unleashed. She then subjects her victim to unspeakable torment, gratifying herself with their pain. To the demon, these liaisons are innocent flings. To the rest of Runeterra, they are ghoulish tales of lust gone awry and horrific reminders of the cost of wanton desire.","blurb":"Within the dark seams of Runeterra, the demon Evelynn searches for her next victim. She lures in prey with the voluptuous façade of a human female, but once a person succumbs to her charms, Evelynn's true form is unleashed. She then subjects her victim...","allytips":["Allure's arm time might seem long, but the Charm and magic resist shred put Evelynn at an exteme advantage so are worth the wait.","While stealthed, pay attention to when you are (near) being detected by enemy champions. This is identified by the glowing yellow and red eyes over nearby enemy champions.","If at low health, you can take advantage of Demon Shade's healing and Camouflage to return to the fight and surprise opponents."],"enemytips":["Purchasing Vision Wards can help you detect Evelynn's location in order to prepare for her ambushes.","A large share of Evelynn's threat is in her charm, 'Allure.' Protect allies marked with 'Allure' or, if you are marked, make sure allies are between you and where Evelynn may attack from.","If you suspect Evelynn is about to ambush one of your teammates, let them know by pinging the minimap and typing in chat."]},"29":{"id":29,"key":"Twitch","name":"Twitch","title":"the Plague Rat","image":{"full":"Twitch.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":288,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"H.I.V.E. Incident Report<br>Code Violation: Industrial Homicide<br>Casefile Status: Unsolved<br>Investigating Agent: Rol, P.<br><br>Team responded to report of suspicious character, criminal activity; proceeded to Sump Works, Sector 90TZ. Sector 90TZ notably absent. In its place: sinkhole, smoke, noxious fumes. Interviews with private security indicate urgent need for better private security.<br>Response team entered sinkhole. Toxic runoff had melted away building wreckage. Two survivors located, one partially liquefied and dripping off catwalk. Six deceased bodies found among wreckage, three of them partial; two appear to predate incident. Causes of death include acute deceleration, caustic liquidation, and/or fatal crossbow wounds. Unclear if lab's destruction was itself the perpetrator's motive or an attempt to cover tracks.<br><br>Survivor #1 (Ra Qintava, facility researcher) brought up for interview, but unable to provide statement due to 1) post-traumatic stress and 2) liquefaction of tongue and lower jaw. Awaiting toxin screen and prosthesis fitting.<br><br>Search-and-rescue discovered apparent shantytown constructed from refuse. Recovered items include:<br><br>     57 waterlogged romance novels, illegible, with edits made in crayon<br>     108 bottles, unlabeled (possible toxic runoff or discarded shampoo remnants)<br>     200 pounds chewing gum (possible installation art project)<br>     1 jar toenails, labeled by toe/finger, date, and mood<br>Survivor #2 (Valori Olant, Sludge Analyst) in recovery; regained lucidity following prolonged therapeutic electrocution. Statement transcript excerpt follows:<br><br>     V.O.: GOT TO DO SOMETHING - <br>     NURSE: She's lost so much blood --<br>     P.R.: Her co-workers lost a lot more than that --<br>     V.O.: IT'S STILL OUT THERE!<br>     P.R.: Ma'am, I need you to focus. Tell me what he looked like.<br>     V.O.: LIKE A RAT! (pause)<br>     NURSE: Like a what?<br>     P.R.: You mean, small? Beady-eyed? Sorta rat-faced -- ?<br>     V.O.: I MEAN IT LOOKED LIKE A GIANT GODSDAMNED RAT! (pause). WITH A CROSSBOW! (pause).<br>     P.R.: (to nurse) Can we moderate her painkillers?<br>     V.O.: YOU'RE NOT LISTENING! IT'S A HOMICIDAL, PSYCHOPATHIC, GIANT FREAKING RAT! <br>     IN A WAISTCOAT!<br>     P.R.: Nurse?<br>     NURSE: (injecting Olant's arm with sedative) On it.<br>     [EDIT]<br>     V.O.: We were just scientists, working on refining human waste into inexpensive baby formula... [EDIT] I saw - I don't know how else to - this crazed, enormous RAT - screaming at us! Kicking over vats! Spitting on our food! [EDIT] The lab was sealed. Industrial waste was spilling everywhere. Nowhere to run. [EDIT] I woke up in the dark. Well, the acid had melted my eyeballs. I could SMELL the twitchy bastard inches from my face. It said, 'NOBODY STEALS TWITCH'S JUICE!' cackled wildly, and skittered off... I can still smell it in my mind. OH MY GODS, I CAN STILL SMELL IT-<br><br>End transcript. At this point victim began screaming; has yet to stop. <br><br>[UPDATE: Qintava, Written Testimony]<br>Suspect summary, as reported:<br>     NAME/KNOWN ALIASES: ''Twitch.''<br>     SEX: Male (unconfirmed).<br>     AGE: Unknown.<br>     HEIGHT: 4'9'' (hunched) <br>     WEIGHT: < 99 lbs. (wet). <br>     DISTINGUISHING FEATURES: Is a giant rat. <br>     STATUS: At large; armed, extremely dangerous; DO NOT ENGAGE.<br><br>H.I.V.E - Enforcing Progress!","blurb":"H.I.V.E. Incident Report<br>Code Violation: Industrial Homicide<br>Casefile Status: Unsolved<br>Investigating Agent: Rol, P.<br><br>Team responded to report of suspicious character, criminal activity; proceeded to Sump Works, Sector 90TZ. Sector 90TZ...","allytips":["Twitch's Attack Speed is among the highest in the game; try purchasing items with on-hit effects such as Black Cleaver or Wit's End.","Contaminate has a large range; apply as many stacks of Deadly Venom as possible before using it.","You can catch up to an enemy out of attack range with Venom Cask."],"enemytips":["Twitch is fragile. Work with teammates to focus on him when you're able to catch him out of Camouflage.","Spell Shields won't block the damage from Deadly Venom, but they will block the effects Twitch can trigger with it.","If you suspect Twitch has left the lane, let your teammates know that Twitch is ''MIA.''"]},"30":{"id":30,"key":"Karthus","name":"Karthus","title":"the Deathsinger","image":{"full":"Karthus.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":432,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"The harbinger of oblivion, Karthus is an undying spirit whose haunting songs are a prelude to the horror of his nightmarish appearance. The living fear the eternity of undeath, but Karthus sees only beauty and purity in its embrace, a perfect union of life and death. When Karthus emerges from the Shadow Isles, it is to bring the joy of death to mortals, an apostle of the unliving.","blurb":"The harbinger of oblivion, Karthus is an undying spirit whose haunting songs are a prelude to the horror of his nightmarish appearance. The living fear the eternity of undeath, but Karthus sees only beauty and purity in its embrace, a perfect union of...","allytips":["Ask your allies to help point out when you should use Requiem to get kills in different lanes.","Lay Waste is very strong at farming minions and harassing enemy champions."],"enemytips":["Karthus can cast spells for a short duration after he is killed. Move away from his corpse to be safe.","Make sure you always have enough health to survive Requiem, even if you have to go back to the base more frequently to heal."]},"31":{"id":31,"key":"Chogath","name":"Cho'Gath","title":"the Terror of the Void","image":{"full":"Chogath.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":336,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"From the moment Cho'Gath first emerged into the harsh light of Runeterra's sun, the beast was driven by the most pure and insatiable hunger. A perfect expression of the Void's desire to consume all life, Cho'Gath's complex biology quickly converts matter into new bodily growth—increasing its muscle mass and density, or hardening its outer carapace like organic diamond. When growing larger does not suit the Void-spawn's needs, it vomits out the excess material as razor-sharp spines, leaving prey skewered and ready to feast upon later.","blurb":"From the moment Cho'Gath first emerged into the harsh light of Runeterra's sun, the beast was driven by the most pure and insatiable hunger. A perfect expression of the Void's desire to consume all life, Cho'Gath's complex biology quickly converts...","allytips":["Try to line up your attacks with Vorpal Spikes so that they kill minions and harass enemy champions at the same time.","If you're having difficulty feasting upon champions, try eating minions until you're larger.","Using Rupture on creeps in combination with Carnivore is a good way to gain Health and Mana."],"enemytips":["Purchasing a few HP items decreases the chances of Cho'Gath killing you quickly.","Focus on preventing Cho'Gath from reaching his max size.","Rupture has a smoke cloud indicating the area it will strike. Try to watch out for it to prevent Cho'Gath from being able to combo his abilities."]},"32":{"id":32,"key":"Amumu","name":"Amumu","title":"the Sad Mummy","image":{"full":"Amumu.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":192,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Legend claims that Amumu is a lonely and melancholy soul from ancient Shurima, roaming the world in search of a friend. Doomed by an ancient curse to remain alone forever, his touch is death, his affection ruin. Those who claim to have seen him describe a living cadaver, small in stature and wrapped in creeping bandages. Amumu has inspired myths, songs, and folklore told and retold for generations—such that it is impossible to separate truth from fiction.","blurb":"Legend claims that Amumu is a lonely and melancholy soul from ancient Shurima, roaming the world in search of a friend. Doomed by an ancient curse to remain alone forever, his touch is death, his affection ruin. Those who claim to have seen him describe...","allytips":["Amumu is highly dependent on teammates, so try laning with your friends for maximum effectiveness.","Cooldown Reduction on Amumu is very strong, but it's often difficult to itemize for it. Grab the Golem buff whenever possible to gain Cooldown Reduction without sacrificing stats.","Despair is very effective against other tanks, so make sure you're in range of opponents with the highest Health."],"enemytips":["Avoid bunching up with other allies when Amumu has his ultimate available.","Erratic movement, or hiding behind creep waves can make it difficult for Amumu to instigate a fight with Bandage Toss.","Amumu's Despair makes purchasing primarily Health items a risky proposition."]},"33":{"id":33,"key":"Rammus","name":"Rammus","title":"the Armordillo","image":{"full":"Rammus.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":336,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Idolized by many, dismissed by some, mystifying to all, the curious being Rammus is an enigma. Protected by a spiked shell, he inspires increasingly disparate theories on his origin wherever he goes—from demigod, to sacred oracle, to a mere beast transformed by magic. Whatever the truth may be, Rammus keeps his own counsel and stops for no one as he roams the Shuriman desert.","blurb":"Idolized by many, dismissed by some, mystifying to all, the curious being Rammus is an enigma. Protected by a spiked shell, he inspires increasingly disparate theories on his origin wherever he goes—from demigod, to sacred oracle, to a mere beast...","allytips":["Powerball can be used as an effective escape mechanism.","Using taunt on a champion by your tower can cause the tower to attack your enemy.","Tremors and Defensive Ball Curl can be used late in the game to obliterate towers. If you're bogged down in a team fight, it is often valuable to break off and attack the buildings."],"enemytips":["Pay particular attention to when his Defensive Ball Curl is off. Rammus has much lower stats than a normal tank when he's out of the stance.","Rammus often stacks high Armor, leaving him especially vulnerable to caster damage while not in Defensive Ball Curl."]},"34":{"id":34,"key":"Anivia","name":"Anivia","title":"the Cryophoenix","image":{"full":"Anivia.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":240,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Anivia is a benevolent winged spirit who endures endless cycles of life, death, and rebirth to protect the Freljord. A demigod born of unforgiving ice and bitter winds, she wields those elemental powers to thwart any who dare disturb her homeland. Anivia guides and protects the tribes of the harsh north, who revere her as a symbol of hope, and a portent of great change. She fights with every ounce of her being, knowing that through her sacrifice, her memory will endure, and she will be reborn into a new tomorrow.","blurb":"Anivia is a benevolent winged spirit who endures endless cycles of life, death, and rebirth to protect the Freljord. A demigod born of unforgiving ice and bitter winds, she wields those elemental powers to thwart any who dare disturb her homeland...","allytips":["Timing Flash Frost with Frostbite can lead to devastating combinations.","Anivia is extremely reliant on Mana for Glacial Storm. Try getting items with Mana or going for a Crest of the Ancient Golem buff on Summoner's Rift.","It can be very difficult for enemy champions to kill her egg early in game. Seize the advantage by playing aggressively."],"enemytips":["Try to gank Anivia when she's laning. With multiple people, it is easier to ensure that her egg dies.","If you're playing a ranged champion, stay far enough away from Anivia so you can dodge Flash Frost more easily.","Try to fight Anivia in the lanes. In the jungle she can block pathways with lower ranks of Crystallize."]},"35":{"id":35,"key":"Shaco","name":"Shaco","title":"the Demon Jester","image":{"full":"Shaco.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":240,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Most would say that death isn't funny. It isn't, unless you're Shaco - then it's hysterical. He is Valoran's first fully functioning homicidal comic; he jests until someone dies, and then he laughs. The figure that has come to be known as the Demon Jester is an enigma. No one fully agrees from whence he came, and Shaco never offers any details on his own. A popular belief is that Shaco is not of Runeterra - that he is a thing summoned from a dark and twisted world. Still others believe that he is the demonic manifestation of humanity's dark urges and therefore cannot be reasoned with. The most plausible belief is that Shaco is an assassin for hire, left to his own lunatic devices until his services are needed. Shaco certainly has proven himself to be a cunning individual, evading authorities at every turn who might seek him for questioning for some horrendous, law-breaking atrocity. While such scuttlebutt might reassure the native inhabitants of Valoran, it seems unimaginable that such a malfeasant figure is allowed to remain at large.<br><br>Whatever the truth of his history might be, Shaco has joined the League of Legends for reasons only he knows. He is a terrifying figure, typically shunned by both his fellow champions and the media at large. Only the summoners in the Institute of War know why such a creature was allowed into the League, but most Runeterrans suspect it to be a means that allows the power that be to keep an eye on the ever-elusive Shaco. Unsurprisingly, this champion is popular in places where madness can openly reign, such as among the power-hungry summoners of Zaun and Noxus.<br><br>Whatever you do, don't tell him you missed the punch line.","blurb":"Most would say that death isn't funny. It isn't, unless you're Shaco - then it's hysterical. He is Valoran's first fully functioning homicidal comic; he jests until someone dies, and then he laughs. The figure that has come to be known as the Demon...","allytips":["Using Deceive over terrain can help you make a clean escape.","Try getting items with on-hit effects. These will also benefit your Hallucination clone.","Backstab's damage can be increased with increased Critical Damage effects like Infinity Edge."],"enemytips":["If Shaco is doing well early-game, it is worth the investment to place Stealth Wards near his Jungle camps.","If Shaco uses Deceive to enter a fight he won't be able to quickly use it again to get away. Work with your team to quickly focus him down."]},"36":{"id":36,"key":"DrMundo","name":"Dr. Mundo","title":"the Madman of Zaun","image":{"full":"DrMundo.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":96,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Utterly insane, unrepentantly homicidal, and horrifyingly purple, Dr. Mundo is what keeps many of Zaun's citizens indoors on particularly dark nights. This monosyllabic monstrosity seems to want nothing more than pain—both the giving of it, and the receiving of it. Wielding his massive meat cleaver as if it were weightless, Mundo is infamous for capturing and torturing dozens of Zaun's citizens for his nefarious “operations,” which seem to have no overall point or goal. He is brutal. He is unpredictable. He goes where he pleases. He is also not, technically, a doctor.","blurb":"Utterly insane, unrepentantly homicidal, and horrifyingly purple, Dr. Mundo is what keeps many of Zaun's citizens indoors on particularly dark nights. This monosyllabic monstrosity seems to want nothing more than pain—both the giving of it, and the...","allytips":["A well-timed Sadism can bait enemy champions into attacking you even when they lack the damage to finish you.","Spirit Visage will increase the healing done by your ultimate and lower cooldowns on all of your abilities.","Cleavers are a powerful tool for killing neutral monsters. Instead of returning to base, farm neutral monsters until your ultimate can heal you."],"enemytips":["Try to coordinate high-damage abilities with your allies right after Dr. Mundo uses his ultimate, but if you're unable to kill him quickly with burst he will heal through the damage.","Try casting Ignite when Dr. Mundo uses Sadism to negate a large portion of its healing."]},"37":{"id":37,"key":"Sona","name":"Sona","title":"Maven of the Strings","image":{"full":"Sona.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":96,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Sona has no memories of her true parents. As an infant, she was found abandoned on the doorstep of an Ionian adoption house, nestled atop an ancient instrument in an exquisite case of unknown origins. She was an unusually well-behaved child, always quiet and content. Her caretakers were sure she would find a home quickly, but it soon became apparent that what they mistook for uncommon geniality was actually an inability to speak or to produce any sound whatsoever. Sona remained at the adoption house until her teens, watching in hopeless silence as prospective adopters passed her by. During this time, the caretakers sold her unusual instrument to anxious collectors, hoping to build her a trust. For a myriad of bizarre and unexpected reasons, however, it would be returned, or simply appear again outside the house.<br><br>When a wealthy Demacian woman named Lestara Buvelle learned of the instrument, she immediately embarked to Ionia. When the caretakers showcased the instrument for her, she rose wordlessly and explored the house, stopping outside Sona's room. Without hesitation, Lestara adopted her and left a generous donation for the instrument. With Lestara's guidance, Sona discovered a deep connection with the instrument which Lestara called an 'etwahl'. In her hands, it played tones which stilled or quivered the hearts of those around her. Within months, she was headlining with the mysterious etwahl for sold-out audiences. She played as though plucking heartstrings, effortlessly manipulating the emotions of her listeners - all without a single written note. In secret, she discovered a potent and deadly use for her etwahl, using its vibrations to slice objects from a distance. She honed this discipline in private, mastering her gift. When she felt prepared, she went to the only place which could offer her a fitting recital: the League of Legends.<br><br>''Her melody moves the soul, her silence sunders the body.''<br>-- Jericho Swain, after attending her concert","blurb":"Sona has no memories of her true parents. As an infant, she was found abandoned on the doorstep of an Ionian adoption house, nestled atop an ancient instrument in an exquisite case of unknown origins. She was an unusually well-behaved child, always...","allytips":["Make sure to tag your allies while Sona's auras are active, but avoid getting caught out by enemies.","Save Crescendo for the game-altering moment.","Well-timed uses of Aria of Perseverance will grant you maximum survivability."],"enemytips":["Spread out when you see Sona so she can't make your entire team dance.","Kill Sona first, as she will heal up her team if left alone for too long."]},"38":{"id":38,"key":"Kassadin","name":"Kassadin","title":"the Void Walker","image":{"full":"Kassadin.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":0,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"There is a place between dimensions and between worlds. To some it is known as the Outside, to others it is the Unknown. To most, however, it is called the Void. Despite its name, the Void is not an empty place, but rather the home of unspeakable things, horrors not meant for minds of men. Though such knowledge is lost in modern times, there are those who have unwittingly discovered what lies beyond, and they have been unable to turn away. Kassadin is such a creature. He was once a man forced to look upon the face of the Void and forever changed by what he saw. Once a seeker of forbidden knowledge, he discovered that what he sought was something else entirely. He is one of the few that has found his way to forgotten Icathia and lived to tell the tale, following the scant breadcrumbs hidden in ancient texts.<br><br>Within a decaying cyclopean city, Kassadin found secrets of the kind that he will never share - secrets that made him quake with fear at the visions of things to come that were thrust upon him. The power of the place threatened to consume him forever, but Kassadin took the only route available to him in order to survive - he let the Void inside him. Miraculously, he was able to overcome the alien urges that went with it, and he emerged as something more than human. Though a part of him died that day, he knows that he must protect Valoran from the things scratching at the door, waiting to get in and visit their torments upon the world. They are only one step away... something to which the appearance of the abomination known as Cho'Gath attests.<br><br>If you look upon the Void, you can't put it behind you. If you look upon Kassadin, he is probably already there.","blurb":"There is a place between dimensions and between worlds. To some it is known as the Outside, to others it is the Unknown. To most, however, it is called the Void. Despite its name, the Void is not an empty place, but rather the home of unspeakable things...","allytips":["Kassadin has multiple item paths; he can go caster via Mana and Ability Power or anti-caster with Cooldown Reduction and Magic Resist.","Kassadin's ultimate has many uses and is on a shorter cooldown than most, use it often.","Try to get the Ancient Golem buff to counteract Riftwalk's increasing Mana cost."],"enemytips":["Kassadin deals mostly magic damage. If he's doing well consider buying magic resist items like Mercury's Treads and Banshee's Veil.","Each time Kassadin consecutively uses Riftwalk, he pays more and more mana. Keep this in mind as you chase him.","It takes 6 spell casts for Kassadin's slow, Force Pulse, to become castable. If he levels up that ability, judiciously use your own skills while laning against him."]},"39":{"id":39,"key":"Irelia","name":"Irelia","title":"the Will of the Blades","image":{"full":"Irelia.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":432,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Raised in the shadow of Noxian occupation, Irelia developed one of the most exotic—and deadly—fighting styles in Ionia. While most of her family died at the hands of the invaders, she survived and learned to wield her levitating blades with nothing but her own determined spirit. She remains a fierce symbol of the resistance, ready to strike down any tyrant who may reach the shores of her homeland.","blurb":"Raised in the shadow of Noxian occupation, Irelia developed one of the most exotic—and deadly—fighting styles in Ionia. While most of her family died at the hands of the invaders, she survived and learned to wield her levitating blades with nothing but...","allytips":["Use Bladesurge to cover great distances by targeting low life minions on your way to champion targets.","Save your Transcendent Blades attacks for the right moment.","Reserving Equilibrium Strike for losing battles can often turn the tide."],"enemytips":["Be wary of Irelia's Equilibrium Strike, as it stuns if you have a higher Health % than her.","Irelia can quickly cover great distances by using Bladesurge on low life targets (its cooldown refreshes if it slays the target)."]},"40":{"id":40,"key":"Janna","name":"Janna","title":"the Storm's Fury","image":{"full":"Janna.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":48,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Armed with the power of Runeterra's gales, Janna is a mysterious, elemental wind spirit who protects the dispossessed of Zaun. Some believe she was brought into existence by the pleas of Runeterra's sailors who prayed for fair winds as they navigated treacherous waters and braved rough tempests. Her favor and protection has since been called into the depths of Zaun, where Janna has become a beacon of hope to those in need. No one knows where or when she will appear, but more often than not, she's come to help.","blurb":"Armed with the power of Runeterra's gales, Janna is a mysterious, elemental wind spirit who protects the dispossessed of Zaun. Some believe she was brought into existence by the pleas of Runeterra's sailors who prayed for fair winds as they navigated...","allytips":["Eye of the Storm can be used on allied turrets.","Quickly firing a Howling Gale without the charge up can be used to heavily disable the other team.","Timing Janna's ultimate can push enemies away from a wounded ally or even separate enemies."],"enemytips":["Save an interrupt ability for when Janna uses her ultimate.","Listen for the charge up sound on Howling Gale in case Janna is trying to hit you with it from off screen or from brush.","Janna's at her strongest when buffing another ally. If you can harass her ally, it will weaken her ability to fight you."]},"41":{"id":41,"key":"Gangplank","name":"Gangplank","title":"the Saltwater Scourge","image":{"full":"Gangplank.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":48,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"As unpredictable as he is brutal, the dethroned reaver king Gangplank is feared far and wide. Once, he ruled the port city of Bilgewater, and while his reign is over, there are those who believe this has only made him more dangerous. Gangplank would see Bilgewater bathed in blood once more before letting someone else take it—and now with pistol, cutlass, and barrels of gunpowder, he is determined to reclaim what he has lost.","blurb":"As unpredictable as he is brutal, the dethroned reaver king Gangplank is feared far and wide. Once, he ruled the port city of Bilgewater, and while his reign is over, there are those who believe this has only made him more dangerous. Gangplank would see...","allytips":["Parrrley applies On Hit effects like Frozen Mallet or Black Cleaver.","Paying attention to low-health enemies on the map can land you a surprise kill with Cannon Barrage.","Try placing Cannon Barrage on the path of escape to cut off fleeing enemies."],"enemytips":["Parrrley deals a high amount of physical damage. Items that grant Armor can help if an enemy Gangplank is doing well.","Once Gangplank reaches level 6, watch out for his global-range ultimate, Cannon Barrage!"]},"42":{"id":42,"key":"Corki","name":"Corki","title":"the Daring Bombardier","image":{"full":"Corki.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":384,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"The yordle pilot Corki loves two things above all others: flying, and his glamorous mustache... though not necessarily in that order. After leaving Bandle City, he settled in Piltover and fell in love with the wondrous machines he found there. He dedicated himself to the development of flying contraptions, leading an aerial defense force of seasoned veterans known as the Screaming Yipsnakes. Calm under fire, Corki patrols the skies around his adopted home, and has never encountered a problem that a good missile barrage couldn't solve.","blurb":"The yordle pilot Corki loves two things above all others: flying, and his glamorous mustache... though not necessarily in that order. After leaving Bandle City, he settled in Piltover and fell in love with the wondrous machines he found there. He...","allytips":["Phosphorus Bomb can be used to reveal enemy units that might be hiding in a nearby patch of brush.","Valkyrie can be used defensively as well, so try using it for a quick escape.","Corki can continue to attack while using Gatling Gun. Maximizing Gatling Gun is key to mastering Corki."],"enemytips":["Watch out for Corki's Missile Barrage. They deal splash damage, so you can get hit even when hiding behind minions.","Corki is vulnerable after he uses his Valkyrie or Special Delivery, so try switching focus to him if he uses them to enter a fight."]},"43":{"id":43,"key":"Karma","name":"Karma","title":"the Enlightened One","image":{"full":"Karma.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":384,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"No champion exemplifies the spiritual traditions of Ionia more than Karma. She is the living embodiment of an ancient soul reincarnated countless times, carrying all her accumulated memories into each new life. With this insight, she serves as a spiritual beacon to her people, bestowing boundless wisdom and healing in times of crisis. Despite being blessed with power that few could comprehend, she rarely uses her magic for destruction, as it always comes at a considerable cost—both to her, and to the land she holds most dear.","blurb":"No champion exemplifies the spiritual traditions of Ionia more than Karma. She is the living embodiment of an ancient soul reincarnated countless times, carrying all her accumulated memories into each new life. With this insight, she serves as a...","allytips":["Gathering Fire rewards aggressive play. Look to land abilities and basic attacks on your opponent to lower Mantra's cooldown and stay on the offensive.","When using Focused Resolve, slow your opponents with Inner Flame or speed yourself up with Inspire if you're having trouble sticking to a target. ","Don't be too conservative with Mantra. Gathering Fire is strongest in teamfights, making it easy to recharge Mantra multiple times."],"enemytips":["Karma's passive lowers her Mantra cooldown when she hits enemy champions with abilities and basic attacks. Deny her from getting free hits on you.","Karma's Soulflare erupts for bonus damage in the area in which it's placed. React quickly and escape the circle to avoid taking heavy damage.","Focused Resolve is a strong disengage tool. Create distance to avoid being rooted and seek to engage afterwards."]},"44":{"id":44,"key":"Taric","name":"Taric","title":"the Shield of Valoran","image":{"full":"Taric.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":432,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Taric is the Aspect of the Protector, wielding incredible power as Runeterra's guardian of life, love, and beauty. Shamed by a dereliction of duty and exiled from his homeland Demacia, Taric ascended Mount Targon to find redemption, only to discover a higher calling among the stars. Imbued with the might of ancient Targon, the Shield of Valoran now stands ever vigilant against the insidious corruption of the Void.","blurb":"Taric is the Aspect of the Protector, wielding incredible power as Runeterra's guardian of life, love, and beauty. Shamed by a dereliction of duty and exiled from his homeland Demacia, Taric ascended Mount Targon to find redemption, only to discover a...","allytips":["The cooldown reducing component of Bravado makes Cooldown Reduction items like Frozen Heart, Iceborn Gauntlet, and Spirit Visage exceptionally powerful on Taric.","Using Starlight's Touch at lower charges makes its healing less Mana efficient, but can greatly increase Taric's sustained damage via Bravado.","Rather than saving Cosmic Radiance for the last moment and risking someone dying during the delay, it can be more beneficial to cast it as soon as you know a teamfight is guaranteed to start."],"enemytips":["Taric's ultimate, Cosmic Radiance, has a long delay before its effect. Try to quickly assess whether to disengage the fight or attempt to kill his allies before it goes off.","Taric reduces his spell cooldowns by basic attacking enemies with Bravado. Try to kite him in teamfights and punish him for approaching the minion wave in lane."]},"45":{"id":45,"key":"Veigar","name":"Veigar","title":"the Tiny Master of Evil","image":{"full":"Veigar.png","sprite":"champion4.png","group":"champion","x":48,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"To most, thoughts of yordles do not conjure images to be feared. The easygoing half-pint race, though fierce, is often regarded with some degree of joviality. Their high-pitched voices and naturally cute forms inspire something of a protective instinct in the larger races, or at least bring to mind images of children playing at being adults. Every now and again, however, a yordle turns so bad that even at its small stature it strikes terror into the hearts of others. Veigar is one such twisted yordle. As a master of the magical black arts, as well as a corrupter of cosmic energy, he is one of the most powerful sorcerers on Valoran.<br><br>As a child, Veigar was a normal yordle with one small exception - he had a deep curiosity for the world beyond Bandle City. The young yordle spent much of his time studying the rest of Valoran, and he jumped at the chance to join a business that traded with other major city-states. Unfortunately for both him and the world, a deal with Noxian trader turned into shady business and went bad; Veigar and his companions were subsequently set up to take the fall. Arrested by the authorities, he was imprisoned within the walls of Noxus for years. Such isolation is very dangerous for yordles - undoubtedly why his cruel jailers did such a thing - and Veigar was slowly driven mad.<br><br>He eventually escaped, having become a twisted version of his former self. Instead of returning to his people and Bandle City, he sought tutelage from dark wizards across the land. With his demented will focused on one task, he quickly became a dangerous and powerful wizard in his own right. Now he seeks to end all conflict on Valoran by bringing all of the city-states to their knees, regardless of their affiliation. The League of Legends is the perfect tool to help him meet his ends - for now.<br><br>Who says evil needs to come in a fearsome-looking package?","blurb":"To most, thoughts of yordles do not conjure images to be feared. The easygoing half-pint race, though fierce, is often regarded with some degree of joviality. Their high-pitched voices and naturally cute forms inspire something of a protective instinct...","allytips":["Use Event Horizon to increase your chances of landing Dark Matter.","Veigar is extremely Mana and Cooldown Reduction dependent. Try buying items with these stats in order to increase the effectiveness of your passive and Baleful Strike.","Veigar is very fragile. It is valuable to select at least one summoner spell that can be used defensively."],"enemytips":["Dark Matter deals very high damage, but it can be avoided. Pay attention to the sound and visual indicator to be aware of when and where the spell will land.","Event Horizon only stuns units on the edge. If you're inside the spell, you can still move and attack.","Veigar's ultimate deals increased damage based on your missing health."]},"48":{"id":48,"key":"Trundle","name":"Trundle","title":"the Troll King","image":{"full":"Trundle.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":144,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Trundle is a hulking and devious troll with a mischievous streak. There is nothing he can't beat into submission and bend to his will, not even the ice itself. With his massive, frozen club, he chills his enemies to the core and runs them through with jagged shards of ice. Fiercely territorial, Trundle chases down anyone foolish enough to enter his domain and laughs as they bleed onto the tundra.<br><br>Trundle's warband once followed a foolish and cowardly chieftain. Under such a weak leader, Trundle feared he and his kin would fall prey to the other troll hordes scattered across the tundra. When his challenge to the chieftain ended in humiliation, Trundle did something that wasn't very troll-like: instead of his fists, he turned to his wits. Thinking on his hairy feet, he spun a tall tale about the troll leaders of old, claiming they wielded weapons of great power as symbols of their right to rule. Though he'd made up the story on the spot, Trundle wagered that if he could find or steal such a weapon, he would become the rightful leader of the warband. The trolls believed him, but none thought him capable of undertaking such a challenge. Knowing the boastful troll would die trying, the foolish chieftain agreed and Trundle departed to the familiar sound of laughter.<br><br>Alone but undaunted, Trundle ventured into the foreboding realm of the dreaded Ice Witch. There, hidden among the many ancient and dangerous secrets, he hoped to find a weapon to prove his elaborate tale. He out-muscled the Ice Witch's guards and outsmarted her dark magic traps, but nothing he scavenged matched the power he'd described to his kin. Finally, he found an unexpected prize: a huge and magical club of never-melting True Ice. Grasping the weapon, he marveled at the cold power that ran through him. But then the wrathful Ice Witch herself appeared. As she summoned her dark magic, Trundle believed he had met his end, but another clever idea struck him. With a knowing grin, he offered the Ice Witch a devious proposition: a troll army, he told her, would be of much more use to her than one troll corpse....<br><br>When Trundle returned to the warband, his fellow trolls bowed to his conquest. Calling his weapon ''Boneshiver,'' he took a moment to enjoy the look of numb shock on his chieftain's face before he caved it in. Seizing command, Trundle announced that there would no longer be chieftains - only a Troll King before whom all of his kind would kneel. The trolls rallied behind their brash, new leader and prepared for the coming war. With Trundle leading the charge, the time of the trolls had finally come.<br><br>''Outsmart anyone you can't beat, and beat anyone you can't outsmart.'' <br>-- Trundle","blurb":"Trundle is a hulking and devious troll with a mischievous streak. There is nothing he can't beat into submission and bend to his will, not even the ice itself. With his massive, frozen club, he chills his enemies to the core and runs them through with...","allytips":["Trundle excels at fighting within his Frozen Domain. Try to draw enemies onto it.","Use Subjugate to soften a powerful enemy tank or to create a target for your team to focus fire.","Chomp is good for lowering the physical damage of enemies; try to focus it on enemy physical damage dealers."],"enemytips":["Trundle is very powerful at location-based combat. Try to draw him off of his Frozen Domain.","Make sure to get out of his Pillar of Ice as quickly as possible, as it significantly slows you down."]},"50":{"id":50,"key":"Swain","name":"Swain","title":"the Master Tactician","image":{"full":"Swain.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":192,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"The earliest account of Swain's existence comes from a Noxian infirmary doctor's notes. According to them, Swain limped into the ward without cry or complaint; his right leg was snapped in half, with bone protruding from the skin. A small, scowling bird seemed affixed to his shoulder. The doctor gawked in horror as the young adolescent answered questions about his health and age with a calm, even stare. Even behind the echoing crack as the sand counterweights reset his tibia, Swain's measuring gaze never flickered, nor did his eyes twitch from the pop of his fibula. He refused the doctor's recommendation of magical treatment for the leg's inoperable damage, requesting only a spare crutch before shuffling away. He next surfaced in documents from the Noxian military, although it is evident that they are incomplete. Normally a crippled boy would be turned away in shame from Noxus' proud legion, but the records indicate his first designation was that of a ranking officer.<br><br>The men who've served under him (and survived) have remained in his charge with unshakable faith and loyalty. He leapt through the High Command's hierarchy, often ascending when superiors requested demotions to join his unit. A cunning strategist, Swain was decorated after every battle he fought, regularly hobbling in contemplation at the front of the assault. His rise to power seemed unceasing until he was suddenly relegated to inactive status prior to the Ionian Invasion - a bewildering decision which reeked of bureaucratic subversion. If Swain was upset by the events which unfolded, he never belied it. His face was so implacable that it was popularly rumored to be a mask, disguising something utterly inhuman beneath. More controversy surrounded the bird that never left his shoulder, whose name he whispered only to it. When Demacia escalated its presence in the League, Swain was immediately returned to active duty.<br><br>''If you haven't yet lost the ability to ask, you may not yet ask for relief.''<br>-Swain","blurb":"The earliest account of Swain's existence comes from a Noxian infirmary doctor's notes. According to them, Swain limped into the ward without cry or complaint; his right leg was snapped in half, with bone protruding from the skin. A small, scowling bird...","allytips":["If you're having trouble rooting an enemy with Nevermove, try using Decrepify to slow them down first.","While laning, try to gauge the strength of your opponents to determine the right balance of aggression with Ravenous Flock. If they're stronger, it might be more beneficial to stay back and cast Nevermove or Torment."],"enemytips":["Swain can easily disable a single attacker. Coordinate with your allies when ganking him.","High mobility counters all of Swain's basic abilities: moving away from the Raven will break the slow, it is easier to dodge Nevermove, and you're able to escape focus fire while Tormented."]},"51":{"id":51,"key":"Caitlyn","name":"Caitlyn","title":"the Sheriff of Piltover","image":{"full":"Caitlyn.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":192,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Renowned as its finest peacekeeper, Caitlyn is also Piltover's best shot at ridding the city of its elusive criminal elements. She is often paired with Vi, acting as a cool counterpoint to her partner's more impetuous nature. Even though she carries a one-of-a-kind hextech rifle, Caitlyn's most powerful weapon is her superior intellect, allowing her to lay elaborate traps for any lawbreakers foolish enough to operate in the City of Progress.","blurb":"Renowned as its finest peacekeeper, Caitlyn is also Piltover's best shot at ridding the city of its elusive criminal elements. She is often paired with Vi, acting as a cool counterpoint to her partner's more impetuous nature. Even though she carries a...","allytips":["Make use of her Yordle Snap Traps by placing them pre-emptively to ensure that you'll have one off of cooldown during combat.","Avoid using Ace in the Hole in large team melees as it might be blocked by the wrong target.","Fire 90 Caliber Net away from the opponent to close the gap or hop over walls."],"enemytips":["Keep behind allied minions if Caitlyn is harassing you with Piltover Peacemaker (it deals less damage with each subsequent target).","You can intercept Ace in the Hole's missile from hitting an ally if you stand in its path."]},"53":{"id":53,"key":"Blitzcrank","name":"Blitzcrank","title":"the Great Steam Golem","image":{"full":"Blitzcrank.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":48,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Blitzcrank is an enormous, near-indestructible automaton from Zaun, originally built to dispose of hazardous waste. However, he found this primary purpose too restricting, and modified his own form to better serve the fragile people of the Sump. Blitzcrank selflessly uses his strength and durability to protect others, extending a helpful metal fist or burst of energy to subdue any troublemakers.","blurb":"Blitzcrank is an enormous, near-indestructible automaton from Zaun, originally built to dispose of hazardous waste. However, he found this primary purpose too restricting, and modified his own form to better serve the fragile people of the Sump...","allytips":["The 1-2-3 combo of Rocket Grab, Power Fist, and Static Field can devastate an individual opponent.","Using Blitzcrank's grab to pull an enemy into your tower range followed by a Power Fist will allow the tower to get several hits on them."],"enemytips":["Blitzcrank's passive Mana Barrier grants him a shield when he is low on health.","Staying behind creeps can prevent you from being Rocket Grabbed. Blitzcrank's Rocket Grab only pulls the first enemy target it encounters."]},"54":{"id":54,"key":"Malphite","name":"Malphite","title":"Shard of the Monolith","image":{"full":"Malphite.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":288,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"A massive creature of living stone, Malphite struggles to impose blessed order on a chaotic world. Birthed as a servitor-shard to an otherworldly obelisk known as the Monolith, he used his tremendous elemental strength to maintain and protect his progenitor, but ultimately failed. The only survivor of the destruction that followed, Malphite now endures Runeterra's soft folk and their fluid temperaments, while struggling to find a new role worthy of the last of his kind.","blurb":"A massive creature of living stone, Malphite struggles to impose blessed order on a chaotic world. Birthed as a servitor-shard to an otherworldly obelisk known as the Monolith, he used his tremendous elemental strength to maintain and protect his...","allytips":["Armor naturally reduces the rate that attacks go through Granite Shield, so Brutal Strikes will strengthen the shield against physical damage.","Despite his abilities scaling on Armor, some games require Malphite to get Magic Resist. When those games occur, try getting Aegis of the Legion, Mercury's Treads, and Guardian Angel."],"enemytips":["If you're a physical damage character stay behind your allies when fighting Malphite. Ground Slam can significantly reduce your damage output.","Malphite is one of a couple tanks who are capable of jungling. Watch out if he gets Smite."]},"55":{"id":55,"key":"Katarina","name":"Katarina","title":"the Sinister Blade","image":{"full":"Katarina.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":48,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Decisive in judgment and lethal in combat, Katarina is a Noxian assassin of the highest caliber. Eldest daughter to the legendary General Du Couteau, she made her talents known with swift kills against unsuspecting enemies. Her fiery ambition has driven her to pursue heavily-guarded targets, even at the risk of endangering her allies—but no matter the mission, Katarina will not hesitate to execute her duty amid a whirlwind of serrated daggers.","blurb":"Decisive in judgment and lethal in combat, Katarina is a Noxian assassin of the highest caliber. Eldest daughter to the legendary General Du Couteau, she made her talents known with swift kills against unsuspecting enemies. Her fiery ambition has driven...","allytips":["Picking up Daggers will significantly reduce Shunpo's cooldown.","Try waiting until the other team is distracted with fighting your team, and use Shunpo to teleport into the fray and unleash a devastating Death Lotus.","Using Shunpo on an allied Champion, Dagger, or minion can be a great escape tactic."],"enemytips":["Katarina's abilities deal magic damage, so even if she's building Attack Damage items, get magic resistance to counter her.","Try to save a disable for when Katarina uses her Death Lotus."]},"56":{"id":56,"key":"Nocturne","name":"Nocturne","title":"the Eternal Nightmare","image":{"full":"Nocturne.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":384,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"A demonic amalgamation drawn from the nightmares that haunt every sentient mind, the thing known as Nocturne has become a primordial force of pure evil. It is liquidly chaotic in aspect, a faceless shadow with cold eyes and armed with wicked-looking blades. After freeing itself from the spirit realm, Nocturne descended upon the waking world, to feed upon the kind of terror that can only thrive in true darkness.","blurb":"A demonic amalgamation drawn from the nightmares that haunt every sentient mind, the thing known as Nocturne has become a primordial force of pure evil. It is liquidly chaotic in aspect, a faceless shadow with cold eyes and armed with wicked-looking...","allytips":["Using Paranoia at a critical moment is well worth it even if you cannot use the dash.","Duskbringer isn't only an offensive ability. It can be used to close distance out of combat or escape from certain death.","Use Shroud of Darkness in tandem with Paranoia's dash. Your opponents may panic and waste a critical disable on your spell shield."],"enemytips":["Stay close to your allies when Paranoia is cast - there is strength in numbers!","Nocturne's Unspeakable Horror is broken with range, so try to save your movement abilities for when he casts it."]},"57":{"id":57,"key":"Maokai","name":"Maokai","title":"the Twisted Treant","image":{"full":"Maokai.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":384,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Maokai is a rageful, towering treant who fights the unnatural horrors of the Shadow Isles. He was twisted into a force of vengeance after a magical cataclysm destroyed his home, surviving undeath only through the Waters of Life infused within his heartwood. Once a peaceful nature spirit, Maokai now furiously battles to banish the scourge of unlife from the Shadow Isles and restore his home to its former beauty.","blurb":"Maokai is a rageful, towering treant who fights the unnatural horrors of the Shadow Isles. He was twisted into a force of vengeance after a magical cataclysm destroyed his home, surviving undeath only through the Waters of Life infused within his...","allytips":["Saplings can be tossed into brush for empowered effect - but don't stack well.","Try looking for flanks or other situations where Nature's Grasp is unavoidable or takes enemies by surprise.","Maokai's passive makes him extremely durable against focus fire from spells - so long as he can still basic attack something."],"enemytips":["Saplings will chase the first enemy that gets too close, but detonate after a few seconds or if they collide with other enemies. Be especially careful around brush sapling, as they are much more dangerous.","The cooldown on Maokai's self healing is heavily gated on how many time you hit him with spells. Careful about wasting abilities on him.","Maokai will avoid taking damage while he's using Twisted Advance, so don't waste your spells."]},"58":{"id":58,"key":"Renekton","name":"Renekton","title":"the Butcher of the Sands","image":{"full":"Renekton.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":432,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Renekton is a terrifying, rage-fueled Ascended being from the scorched deserts of Shurima. Once, he was his empire's most esteemed warrior, leading the nation's armies to countless victories. However, after the empire's fall, Renekton was entombed beneath the sands, and slowly, as the world turned and changed, he succumbed to insanity. Now free once more, he is utterly consumed with finding and killing his brother, Nasus, who he blames, in his madness, for the centuries he spent in darkness.","blurb":"Renekton is a terrifying, rage-fueled Ascended being from the scorched deserts of Shurima. Once, he was his empire's most esteemed warrior, leading the nation's armies to countless victories. However, after the empire's fall, Renekton was entombed...","allytips":["Slice and Dice excels at harassing maneuvers. Slice in, follow up with another skill and then Dice back out to safety.","Cull the Meek drains an enormous amount of life when used in the middle of the fray. You can use this to bait opponents into thinking you are weaker than you really are.","Cooldown reduction is especially good for Renekton, allowing him to both quickly build up and use his Fury."],"enemytips":["Pay close attention to Renekton's Fury gauge as that will usually signify when he is about to attack.","Keeping Renekton from being able to fight and gain Fury by continually harassing him will severely reduce the effectiveness of his abilities."]},"59":{"id":59,"key":"JarvanIV","name":"Jarvan IV","title":"the Exemplar of Demacia","image":{"full":"JarvanIV.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":96,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Prince Jarvan, scion of the Lightshield dynasty, is heir apparent to the throne of Demacia. Raised to be a paragon of his nation's greatest virtues, he is forced to balance the heavy expectations placed upon him with his own desire to fight on the front lines. Jarvan inspires his troops with his fearsome courage and selfless determination, raising his family's colors high and revealing his true strength as a future leader of his people.","blurb":"Prince Jarvan, scion of the Lightshield dynasty, is heir apparent to the throne of Demacia. Raised to be a paragon of his nation's greatest virtues, he is forced to balance the heavy expectations placed upon him with his own desire to fight on the front...","allytips":["You can use the Dragon Strike / Demacian Standard combo to get out of your own Cataclysm arenas.","Split your basic attacks on different champions at the beginning of fights to maximize damage.","Use Demacian Standard as a scouting tool when worried about incoming enemies."],"enemytips":["Keep out of the path between Jarvan IV and his Demacian Standard to avoid being knocked up in the air.","Cataclysm's terrain is a frightening force to fight against, but movement abilities can go through it."]},"60":{"id":60,"key":"Elise","name":"Elise","title":"the Spider Queen","image":{"full":"Elise.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":192,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Elise is a deadly predator who dwells in a shuttered, lightless palace, deep within the oldest city of Noxus. Once mortal, she was the mistress of a powerful house, but the bite of a vile demigod transformed her into something beautiful, yet utterly inhuman—a spider-like creature, drawing unsuspecting prey into her web. To maintain her eternal youth, Elise now prefers to feed upon the naive and the faithless, and there are few who can resist her seductions.","blurb":"Elise is a deadly predator who dwells in a shuttered, lightless palace, deep within the oldest city of Noxus. Once mortal, she was the mistress of a powerful house, but the bite of a vile demigod transformed her into something beautiful, yet utterly...","allytips":["Spider Form is most effective at finishing off enemies with low health; Human Form's Neurotoxin does more damage to healthy foes. ","When in Spider Form, Spiderlings will attack the target that Elise uses Venomous Bite on. ","Elise's Spider Form and Spider Form abilities do not cost mana and can be prioritized when you are trying to conserve mana."],"enemytips":["Elise's Spider Form is more dangerous when you are at low health, and her Human Form more potent when you are at high health.","Rappel will only move Elise straight up and down unless she can descend upon an enemy unit.","Rappel has a long cooldown. Elise is vulnerable after she has used it."]},"61":{"id":61,"key":"Orianna","name":"Orianna","title":"the Lady of Clockwork","image":{"full":"Orianna.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":48,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"There once was a Piltovian man named Corin Reveck who had a daughter named Orianna, whom he loved more than anything else in the world. Though Orianna had incredible talent for dancing, she was deeply fascinated by the champions of the League of Legends. This fascination compelled her to begin training to become such a champion. It is unfortunate that her sheltered, wide-eyed naivete led her to take unnecessary and dangerous chances which ultimately led to her tragic demise. Orianna's death shattered Corin, driving him into deep depression and an obsession with techmaturgy. He could not stand the void his daughter's death left in his life, so he decided to build a replacement - one that would complete Orianna's dream of joining the League. What was created is the clockwork killing machine that Corin named after his daughter. Knowing that she was destined to be a champion and seeing the way the times were changing, he created The Ball as her pet and protector. This nearly symbiotic creation uses a different type of techmaturgy, relying more heavily on electricity than clockwork.<br><br>Orianna and The Ball now fight as Champions in the League of Legends, using her sometimes misguided morality as a compass. She tries in earnest to fit in with those around her. However, no matter how hard she tries, Orianna can never be human and there is always something unnerving and alien about her. Though she attempts social interaction with other champions in the League of Legends, there are few who can get past her exotic nature. To many, it's as if there's nothing inside, that Orianna is just a soulless clockwork shell - a dangerous and deadly one at that. However, all along she remains the perfect daughter in her father's eyes.<br><br>''Dance with me, my pet. Dance with me into oblivion.''","blurb":"There once was a Piltovian man named Corin Reveck who had a daughter named Orianna, whom he loved more than anything else in the world. Though Orianna had incredible talent for dancing, she was deeply fascinated by the champions of the League of Legends...","allytips":["Command: Protect can be used on yourself to return the Ball back to you quickly. Combine this with Command: Attack for a quick harassment.","Command: Dissonance is a very powerful escape tool if Orianna has the Ball. The combination of speed and leaving a slowing obstacle can be quite powerful.","Command: Shockwave can be used to drag enemies towards you or away from you if you position the Ball properly."],"enemytips":["Orianna can only affect the area the Ball is around. Use this to your advantage.","Watch out for Orianna's Ball returning to her due to leashing. This may cause some unexpected situations."]},"62":{"id":62,"key":"MonkeyKing","name":"Wukong","title":"the Monkey King","image":{"full":"MonkeyKing.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":48,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Wukong is a vastayan trickster who uses his strength, agility, and intelligence to confuse his opponents and gain the upper hand. After finding a lifelong friend in the warrior known as Master Yi, Wukong became the last student of the ancient martial art known as Wuju. Armed with an enchanted staff, Wukong seeks to prevent Ionia from falling to ruin.","blurb":"Wukong is a vastayan trickster who uses his strength, agility, and intelligence to confuse his opponents and gain the upper hand. After finding a lifelong friend in the warrior known as Master Yi, Wukong became the last student of the ancient martial...","allytips":["Decoy and Nimbus Strike work well together to quickly strike your enemy and get out before they can retaliate.","Try using Decoy near brush to make an enemy overreact to your movement."],"enemytips":["Wukong will often use Decoy after Nimbus Strike. Try delaying your abilities by a short amount of time to ensure that you're hitting the real Wukong.","Wukong becomes tougher to kill when surrounded by his enemies. Try to isolate him to gain an advantage."]},"63":{"id":63,"key":"Brand","name":"Brand","title":"the Burning Vengeance","image":{"full":"Brand.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":96,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Once a tribesman of the icy Freljord named Kegan Rodhe, the creature known as Brand is a lesson in the temptation of greater power. Seeking one of the legendary World Runes, Kegan betrayed his companions and seized it for himself—and, in an instant, the man was no more. His soul burned away, his body a vessel of living flame, Brand now roams Valoran in search of other Runes, swearing revenge for wrongs he could never possibly have suffered in a dozen mortal lifetimes.","blurb":"Once a tribesman of the icy Freljord named Kegan Rodhe, the creature known as Brand is a lesson in the temptation of greater power. Seeking one of the legendary World Runes, Kegan betrayed his companions and seized it for himself—and, in an instant, the...","allytips":["You can deter enemies from standing near their minions by setting them ablaze, due to Conflagration.","You can use Brand's abilities in a variety of combinations to maximize his damage in different situations.","Pyroclasm bounces randomly between enemies, so try to cast it on a small group of enemies if you want to hit the same target multiple times."],"enemytips":["Brand must land an ability before his combo is able to get started. Dodging his Sear or Pillar of Flame will disrupt his rhythm.","Try to move away from allies when you see Pyroclasm being cast. The initial missile speed is slow, which should give your team time to react.","Brand's passive allows him to excel against teams that cluster together. Be sure to split up against him."]},"64":{"id":64,"key":"LeeSin","name":"Lee Sin","title":"the Blind Monk","image":{"full":"LeeSin.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":0,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"A master of Ionia's ancient martial arts, Lee Sin is a principled fighter who channels the essence of the dragon spirit to face any challenge. Though he lost his sight many years ago, the warrior-monk has devoted his life to protecting his homeland against any who would dare upset its sacred balance. Enemies who underestimate his meditative demeanor will endure his fabled burning fists and blazing roundhouse kicks.","blurb":"A master of Ionia's ancient martial arts, Lee Sin is a principled fighter who channels the essence of the dragon spirit to face any challenge. Though he lost his sight many years ago, the warrior-monk has devoted his life to protecting his homeland...","allytips":["Use Sonic Wave before Dragon's Rage so you can chase the target with Resonating Strike.","Take advantage of Flurry by weaving in basic attacks between spell casts - this maximizes damage output and minimizes Energy loss.","Self-casting Safeguard and using Iron Will are powerful tools for killing neutral monsters (in the jungle)."],"enemytips":["Stay spread out to minimize the impact of Lee Sin's ultimate, Dragon's Rage.","Lee Sin has powerful tools to combat physical damage in Iron Will and Cripple but he is still vulnerable to magic damage.","Lee Sin relies heavily on following up with his abilities. Use disables to prevent him from chaining together his abilities and attacks."]},"67":{"id":67,"key":"Vayne","name":"Vayne","title":"the Night Hunter","image":{"full":"Vayne.png","sprite":"champion4.png","group":"champion","x":0,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"The world is not always as civilized as people might think. There are still those who would follow the blackest paths of magic and become corrupted by the darker powers that flow through Runeterra. Shauna Vayne knows this fact well.<br><br>As a young privileged girl in the heart of Demacia's elite, her father tried to convince her of the constabulary's ever-vigilant eye. Young and naive, she truly believed that her world was one of perfect safety, until one night, when a twisted witch took interest in her father. The malevolent woman overcame her father's conciliar guard, then tortured her family before murdering them. The young Shauna escaped only by hiding herself and then fleeing once the hag had departed, plagued by the screams of her loved ones as she ran. A burning hatred was born in her that day, one that could never be denied.<br><br>Vayne was able to take care of herself using her father's money, and she began to train as soon as an instructor would have her as a student. By the time she was a fully grown woman, she had become a grim warrior. However, the fields of battle were not to be her home.<br><br>Demacia needed a protector, one who hunted those lost to the darkness. Shauna used her family's contacts to become the first Night Hunter, and now her prowess is legendary. It is said that those who practice the black arts quake when they hear that the Night Hunter is on the prowl.<br><br>Not all shadows are to be feared. At least, if Vayne has her way.","blurb":"The world is not always as civilized as people might think. There are still those who would follow the blackest paths of magic and become corrupted by the darker powers that flow through Runeterra. Shauna Vayne knows this fact well.<br><br>As a young...","allytips":["Tumble has many uses, but it cannot pass over walls.","Condemn can be used to both pin targets to walls to ensure a kill, or to escape a pursuer.","Don't go in first to a large teamfight. Wait for your teammates to initiate."],"enemytips":["Vayne is fragile - turn the pressure up on her and she will be forced to play cautiously.","Deny Vayne the opportunity to pin you against walls."]},"68":{"id":68,"key":"Rumble","name":"Rumble","title":"the Mechanized Menace","image":{"full":"Rumble.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":96,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"''Ugh, it's gonna take forever to scrape your face off my suit!''<br><br>Even amongst yordles, Rumble was always the runt of the litter. As such, he was used to being bullied. In order to survive, he had to be scrappier and more resourceful than his peers. He developed a quick temper and a reputation for getting even, no matter who crossed him. This made him something of a loner, but he didn't mind. He liked to tinker, preferring the company of gadgets, and he could usually be found rummaging through the junkyard.<br><br>Rumble showed great potential as a mechanic, and his teachers recommended him for enrollment at the Yordle Academy of Science and Progress in Piltover. He may very well have become one of Heimerdinger's esteemed proteges, but Rumble refused to go. He believed that Heimerdinger and his associates were ''sellouts,'' trading superior yordle technology to humans for nothing more than a pat on the head while yordles remained the butt of their jokes.<br><br>When a group of human graduates from the Yordle Academy sailed to Bandle City to visit the place where their mentor was born and raised, Rumble couldn't resist the temptation to see them face-to-face (so to speak). He only intended to get a good look at the humans, but four hours and several choice words later, he returned home bruised and bloodied with an earful about how he was an embarrassment to ''enlightened'' yordles like Heimerdinger.<br><br>The next morning, Rumble left Bandle City without a word, and wasn't seen again for months. When he returned, he was at the helm of a clanking, mechanized monstrosity. He marched it to the center of town amidst dumbfounded onlookers and there announced that he would show the world what yordle-tech was really capable of achieving.","blurb":"''Ugh, it's gonna take forever to scrape your face off my suit!''<br><br>Even amongst yordles, Rumble was always the runt of the litter. As such, he was used to being bullied. In order to survive, he had to be scrappier and more resourceful than his...","allytips":["Try and pace yourself to stay in the Danger Zone to maximize your effectiveness. It is easy to overheat if you rapidly use your abilities.","Try and keep targets in the range of your Flamespitter. It can deal a lot of damage overtime.","If you are winning a fight you can use your ultimate to wall off an escape path."],"enemytips":["Watch Rumble's Heat bar carefully. If you see him Overheat, go in for the kill while his skills are disabled.","Rumble's ultimate can deal a lot of damage if you stay inside the area of effect. When you see the missiles falling, move out of the way as quickly as possible.","Rumble deals almost entirely magic damage. Build some Magic Resistance to reduce his damage."]},"69":{"id":69,"key":"Cassiopeia","name":"Cassiopeia","title":"the Serpent's Embrace","image":{"full":"Cassiopeia.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":288,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Cassiopeia is a deadly creature bent on manipulating others to her sinister will. Youngest and most beautiful daughter of the noble Du Couteau family of Noxus, she ventured deep into the crypts beneath Shurima in search of ancient power. There, she was bitten by a gruesome tomb guardian, whose venom transformed her into a viper-like predator. Cunning and agile, Cassiopeia now slithers under the veil of night, petrifying her enemies with her baleful gaze.","blurb":"Cassiopeia is a deadly creature bent on manipulating others to her sinister will. Youngest and most beautiful daughter of the noble Du Couteau family of Noxus, she ventured deep into the crypts beneath Shurima in search of ancient power. There, she was...","allytips":["Use Twin Fang on poisoned stationary targets like monsters and units stunned by her Petrifying Gaze for maximum damage.","Lead your enemy when targeting with Noxious Blast to ensure the hit."],"enemytips":["Be wary of Cassiopeia's damage potential with Twin Fang when she has you poisoned.","Turn away from Cassiopeia when she is casting Petrifying Gaze to get slowed instead of stunned."]},"72":{"id":72,"key":"Skarner","name":"Skarner","title":"the Crystal Vanguard","image":{"full":"Skarner.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":48,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Skarner is an immense crystalline scorpion from a hidden valley in Shurima. Part of the ancient Brackern race, Skarner and his kin are known for their great wisdom and deep connection to the land, as their souls are fused with powerful life crystals which hold the living thoughts and memories of their ancestors. In an age long past, the Brackern entered hibernation to avoid untold magical destruction, but recent, threatening events have roused Skarner. As the only Brackern awake, he strives to protect his kind from those who seek to harm them.","blurb":"Skarner is an immense crystalline scorpion from a hidden valley in Shurima. Part of the ancient Brackern race, Skarner and his kin are known for their great wisdom and deep connection to the land, as their souls are fused with powerful life crystals...","allytips":["Basic attacks reduce the cooldown of Crystal Slash. Use them as often as possible for maximum damage.","Capturing Crystal Spires before attempting neutral objectives or team fights around them improves Skarner's performance in said fights dramatically.","Impale is extremely powerful when you use it to position an enemy so your allies can attack them."],"enemytips":["Skarner can't harm you very much outside of short range, so stay away from him!","Skarner's Movement Speed is increased as long as his shield, Crystalline Exoskeleton, persists. Attack him to lower his speed.","Skarner is especially dangerous when inside Crystal Spire zones his team controls. Try to capture them ahead of time if a fight may break out around them."]},"74":{"id":74,"key":"Heimerdinger","name":"Heimerdinger","title":"the Revered Inventor","image":{"full":"Heimerdinger.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":336,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"A brilliant yet eccentric yordle scientist, Professor Cecil B. Heimerdinger is one of the most innovative and esteemed inventors Piltover has ever known. Relentless in his work to the point of neurotic obsession, he thrives on answering the universe's most impenetrable questions. Though his theories often appear opaque and esoteric, Heimerdinger has crafted some of Piltover's most miraculous—not to mention lethal—machinery, and constantly tinkers with his inventions to make them even more efficient.","blurb":"A brilliant yet eccentric yordle scientist, Professor Cecil B. Heimerdinger is one of the most innovative and esteemed inventors Piltover has ever known. Relentless in his work to the point of neurotic obsession, he thrives on answering the universe's...","allytips":["Turret placement can be a deciding factor in a battle. Against most enemies turrets are best when they can support each other, but if the enemy has a lot of area of effect damage your turrets can be destroyed quickly. Placing turrets in brush can lead to a surprise attack in your favor.","The success of Electron Storm Grenade is very important to Heimerdinger's survival. The slow and stun both are capable of keeping enemies in place long enough to punish them, but it is also the first line of defense against a surprise attack.","Spreading out Hextech Micro-Rockets leads to more reliable damage and more efficiency against multiple targets, but focusing it creates the biggest impact."],"enemytips":["It's better to destroy all of Heimerdinger's turrets at once with the help of creeps than to fight them one at a time.","Be wary of Heimerdinger's Upgrade!!!, as he can use it to find an answer to most trouble he gets into. Once his ultimate is down, go in for the kill!"]},"75":{"id":75,"key":"Nasus","name":"Nasus","title":"the Curator of the Sands","image":{"full":"Nasus.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":240,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Nasus is an imposing, jackal-headed Ascended being from ancient Shurima, a heroic figure regarded as a demigod by the people of the desert. Fiercely intelligent, he was a guardian of knowledge and peerless strategist whose wisdom guided the ancient empire of Shurima to greatness for many centuries. After the fall of the empire, he went into self-imposed exile, becoming little more than a legend. Now that the ancient city of Shurima has risen once more, he has returned, determined to ensure it never falls again.","blurb":"Nasus is an imposing, jackal-headed Ascended being from ancient Shurima, a heroic figure regarded as a demigod by the people of the desert. Fiercely intelligent, he was a guardian of knowledge and peerless strategist whose wisdom guided the ancient...","allytips":["Paying attention to last hitting with Siphoning Strike will have a large impact at the end of a game.","If you're solo, Spirit Fire is a great way to farm a lane. It can be bad if you're in a lane with 2 and you push too far. Find the right balance between Siphoning Strike last hits and AoE farming.","If you have low defenses, people will focus you down even during your ultimate. Try buying some survivability items even in your DPS builds."],"enemytips":["While transformed by his ultimate, Nasus is stronger than most champions in the League. Engage him only if you have a clear advantage.","Max rank Wither is a very effective counter to Attack Damage characters, so try to avoid getting caught alone by it.","Nasus is prone to being kited. Try not to engage him at full Health."]},"76":{"id":76,"key":"Nidalee","name":"Nidalee","title":"the Bestial Huntress","image":{"full":"Nidalee.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":336,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Raised in the deepest jungle, Nidalee is a master tracker who can shapeshift into a ferocious cougar at will. Neither wholly woman nor beast, she viciously defends her territory from any and all trespassers, with carefully placed traps and deft spear throws. She cripples her quarry before pouncing on them in feline form—the lucky few who survive tell tales of a wild woman with razor-sharp instincts, and even sharper claws...","blurb":"Raised in the deepest jungle, Nidalee is a master tracker who can shapeshift into a ferocious cougar at will. Neither wholly woman nor beast, she viciously defends her territory from any and all trespassers, with carefully placed traps and deft spear...","allytips":["Use brush to your advantage! Moving in and out of brush can heavily alter your effectiveness in battle.","Start team fights by harassing with your Javelin Toss, and then switch to cougar form to chase down Hunted targets.","Bushwhack traps deal damage based on their victim's current Health. Set them up in your team's backline before fights break out during sieges to help your team deal damage to the enemy frontline."],"enemytips":["Nidalee's Hunt debuff is only applied with Javelin Toss and Bushwhack. Avoiding being hit by these abilities will impair her ability to deal follow-up damage.","Nidalee's Javelin Toss deals more damage the farther she is. If she is far away, it's imperative to dodge it.","Nidalee's Takedown deals extreme damage to Hunted targets, but she has to get close to use it. Save your crowd control or defensive abilities for when she goes in for the kill."]},"77":{"id":77,"key":"Udyr","name":"Udyr","title":"the Spirit Walker","image":{"full":"Udyr.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":336,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Udyr is more than a man; he is a vessel for the untamed power of four primal animal spirits. When tapping into the spirits' bestial natures, Udyr can harness their unique strengths: The tiger grants him speed and ferocity, the turtle resilience, the bear might, and the phoenix its eternal flame. With their combined power, Udyr can turn back all those who would attempt to harm the natural order.","blurb":"Udyr is more than a man; he is a vessel for the untamed power of four primal animal spirits. When tapping into the spirits' bestial natures, Udyr can harness their unique strengths: The tiger grants him speed and ferocity, the turtle resilience, the...","allytips":["Damage is applied to turtle shield post-mitigation. Therefore, buying defensive items can drastically increase your survivability.","Udyr is one of the best junglers in the game. Taking advantage of this can give your team a large XP advantage and map control."],"enemytips":["Udyr players will often start in the jungle and only appear to gank in lanes. Try warding key locations to keep track of his movement.","Once the initial shield effect has faded, Turtle Stance is weak against other champions. Press the attack to force him to switch stances and prevent him from regenerating health.","Some Udyr players buy tank items to become very durable. If they do, focus their weaker teammates instead."]},"78":{"id":78,"key":"Poppy","name":"Poppy","title":"Keeper of the Hammer","image":{"full":"Poppy.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":192,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"''I'm no hero. Just a yordle with a hammer.''<br><br>Runeterra has no shortage of valiant champions, but few are as tenacious as Poppy. Bearing a hammer twice the length of her body, this determined yordle has spent untold years searching for the ''Hero of Demacia,'' a fabled warrior said to be the rightful wielder of her weapon.","blurb":"''I'm no hero. Just a yordle with a hammer.''<br><br>Runeterra has no shortage of valiant champions, but few are as tenacious as Poppy. Bearing a hammer twice the length of her body, this determined yordle has spent untold years searching for the ''Hero...","allytips":["Iron Ambassador tends to land near walls, try to take advantage of this with Heroic Charge.","Keeper's Verdict can be released immediately to send the enemy straight up, take advantage of this in duels."],"enemytips":["Poppy can stop nearby enemies from dashing with Steadfast Presence.","When Poppy starts to spin her hammer, she is charging Keeper's Verdict.","You can step on Poppy's shield to deny it from her."]},"79":{"id":79,"key":"Gragas","name":"Gragas","title":"the Rabble Rouser","image":{"full":"Gragas.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":192,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Equal parts jolly and imposing, Gragas is a massive, rowdy brewmaster on his own quest for the perfect pint of ale. Hailing from parts unknown, he now searches for rare ingredients among the unblemished wastes of the Freljord, trying each recipe as he goes. Often intoxicated and extremely impulsive, he is legendary for the brawls he starts, which often end in all-night parties and widespread property damage. Any appearance from Gragas must surely foreshadow drinking and destruction—in that order.","blurb":"Equal parts jolly and imposing, Gragas is a massive, rowdy brewmaster on his own quest for the perfect pint of ale. Hailing from parts unknown, he now searches for rare ingredients among the unblemished wastes of the Freljord, trying each recipe as he...","allytips":["The damage reduction from Drunken Rage is applied when you start drinking, try to use it when you see damage coming your way.","Try to knock enemies back into your towers with Explosive Cask.","Try to combo Body Slam with Explosive Cask to set up kills for your team."],"enemytips":["Gragas can knock everybody away with his ultimate. Be careful that you don't get knocked into him or, worse, an enemy tower.","Body Slam is on a very low cooldown, making it difficult to pursue Gragas. Don't overextend yourself chasing him."]},"80":{"id":80,"key":"Pantheon","name":"Pantheon","title":"the Artisan of War","image":{"full":"Pantheon.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":144,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"The peerless warrior known as Pantheon is a nigh-unstoppable paragon of battle. He was born among the Rakkor, a warlike people living on the flanks of Mount Targon, and after climbing the mountain's treacherous peak and being deemed worthy, he was chosen to become the earthly incarnation of the celestial Aspect of War. Imbued with inhuman power, he relentlessly seeks the enemies of Targon, leaving only corpses in his wake.","blurb":"The peerless warrior known as Pantheon is a nigh-unstoppable paragon of battle. He was born among the Rakkor, a warlike people living on the flanks of Mount Targon, and after climbing the mountain's treacherous peak and being deemed worthy, he was...","allytips":["Using Aegis of Zeonia quickly followed by Heartseeker Strike can devastate your enemies.","Using Spear Shot frequently in a battle, along with Attack Speed items, can help defensively by charging Aegis Protection.","Using Grand Skyfall to assist your allies across the map can quickly turn the tides of battle, putting your allies at an advantage."],"enemytips":["Keeping yourself hidden in brush can make it harder for Pantheon to target you with Grand Skyfall.","Watch out for when Pantheon has a stunning or snaring partner in lane with him (example: Morgana, Sion) as he can cause devastating damage with his Heartseeker Strike.","Pantheon's Aegis Protection shield will block a single champion basic attack or turret shot, but he's vulnerable until he brings it back up again by attacking or using abilities."]},"81":{"id":81,"key":"Ezreal","name":"Ezreal","title":"the Prodigal Explorer","image":{"full":"Ezreal.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":288,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"A self-assured Piltovan explorer with an uncanny ability to find his way into and out of trouble, Ezreal travels Runeterra in search of adventure. Armed with a magical gauntlet procured from the ruins of ancient Shurima, he seeks out the world's most cryptic mysteries. Ezreal fires bolts of mystic energy, shifting through treacherous, uncharted places with a cocky grin on his face.","blurb":"A self-assured Piltovan explorer with an uncanny ability to find his way into and out of trouble, Ezreal travels Runeterra in search of adventure. Armed with a magical gauntlet procured from the ruins of ancient Shurima, he seeks out the world's most...","allytips":["Use Arcane Shift to help line up your other skill shots.","You can play Ezreal either as a Attack Damage carry or Ability Power carry depending on how you build him.","You can line up Trueshot Barrage to hit multiple minion waves or even Monsters."],"enemytips":["Ezreal is a very fragile champion so take the fight to him.","Ezreal is completely skill shot based, so make sure to keep minions in between you.","Mystic Shot applies on-hit effects including the Crest of Cinders."]},"82":{"id":82,"key":"Mordekaiser","name":"Mordekaiser","title":"the Iron Revenant","image":{"full":"Mordekaiser.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":96,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"The baleful revenant Mordekaiser is among the most terrifying and hateful spirits haunting the Shadow Isles. He has existed for countless centuries, shielded from true death by necromantic sorcery and the force of his own dark will. Those who dare face Mordekaiser in battle risk a horrific curse: He enslaves his victims' souls to become instruments of destruction.","blurb":"The baleful revenant Mordekaiser is among the most terrifying and hateful spirits haunting the Shadow Isles. He has existed for countless centuries, shielded from true death by necromantic sorcery and the force of his own dark will. Those who dare face...","allytips":["You can control a pet by holding down the alt key and using the right mouse button.","Sometimes the best defense is more offense; use Mordekaiser's abilities to charge up his shield.","Remember that Children of the Grave can be used defensively because of its lifesteal component."],"enemytips":["Mordekaiser's abilities charge up his shield, making him tougher to kill over time. Try focusing fire on Mordekaiser to burst him down.","Keep your distance and don't stand near creep waves since he'll be aiming Siphon of Destruction at them.","Watch out for the Children of the Grave and Ignite combo. If you're low enough, this will kill you and give his team a powerful ghost."]},"83":{"id":83,"key":"Yorick","name":"Yorick","title":"Shepherd of Souls","image":{"full":"Yorick.png","sprite":"champion4.png","group":"champion","x":96,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"The last survivor of a long-forgotten religious order, Yorick is both blessed and cursed with power over the dead. Trapped on the Shadow Isles, his only companions are the rotting corpses and shrieking spirits that he gathers to him. Yorick's monstrous actions belie his noble purpose: to free his home from the curse of the Ruination.","blurb":"The last survivor of a long-forgotten religious order, Yorick is both blessed and cursed with power over the dead. Trapped on the Shadow Isles, his only companions are the rotting corpses and shrieking spirits that he gathers to him. Yorick's monstrous...","allytips":["You do not need to cast Awakening to regain the ability to cast Last Rites.","The Maiden will attempt to assist you in a fight, so choose your targets well.","You can send the Maiden down a lane alone, be careful though, as she represents a large portion of your combat power."],"enemytips":["You can cast Smite on Mist Walkers and the Maiden of the Mist to damage or kill them.","Try to thin out Yorick's minions before you engage him, Mist Walkers will die from a basic attack or a single target spell.","You can attack Dark Procession to break the wall down."]},"84":{"id":84,"key":"Akali","name":"Akali","title":"the Fist of Shadow","image":{"full":"Akali.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":96,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"A prodigy in the fighting arts, Akali is a member of the martial order known as the Kinkou. She succeeds her mother as the Fist of Shadow, entrusted with the sacred duty to end those who would bring imbalance to her homeland. While some find her methods extreme, Akali is judicious in maintaining harmony across Ionia.","blurb":"A prodigy in the fighting arts, Akali is a member of the martial order known as the Kinkou. She succeeds her mother as the Fist of Shadow, entrusted with the sacred duty to end those who would bring imbalance to her homeland. While some find her methods...","allytips":["Akali excels at killing weaker characters. Let your team initiate and then strike at the people in the back.","Find the balance between storing Essence of Shadows, and using Shadow Dance before having max charges."],"enemytips":["Akali can still be hit by area effect spells while Invisible inside Twilight Shroud.","Akali can choose where she starts within her Twilight Shroud before casting it, even if part of the shroud would extend beyond a wall.","Return to base if your Health is low and Akali has multiple charges of her ultimate."]},"85":{"id":85,"key":"Kennen","name":"Kennen","title":"the Heart of the Tempest","image":{"full":"Kennen.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":192,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"More than just the lightning-quick enforcer of Ionian balance, Kennen is the only yordle member of the Kinkou. Despite his small, furry stature, he is eager to take on any threat with a whirling storm of shuriken and boundless enthusiasm. Alongside his master Shen, Kennen patrols the spirit realm, employing devastating electrical energy to strike down his enemies.","blurb":"More than just the lightning-quick enforcer of Ionian balance, Kennen is the only yordle member of the Kinkou. Despite his small, furry stature, he is eager to take on any threat with a whirling storm of shuriken and boundless enthusiasm. Alongside his...","allytips":["You can stun your opponents by inflicting 3 Marks of the Storm upon them.","Lightning Rush can be used to initiate fights with its Energy return component, allowing him to use other abilities afterward.","You can land an initial Mark of the Storm debuff on an opponent with Thundering Shuriken, and then add to it with Electrical Surge."],"enemytips":["Consider playing a bit more cautiously around Kennen when you have a Mark of the Storm debuff. If he hits you with 3 Marks of the Storm, you will get stunned.","Kennen is flimsy by nature - turn and attack him if he gets careless with Lightning Rush."]},"86":{"id":86,"key":"Garen","name":"Garen","title":"The Might of Demacia","image":{"full":"Garen.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":96,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Throughout Valoran, the resolve of Demacia's military is alternately celebrated or despised, but always respected. Their ''zero tolerance'' moral code is strictly upheld by civilians and soldiers alike. In combat, this means Demacian troops may not make excuses, flee, or surrender under any circumstance. These principles are espoused to their forces by unrivaled demagogues who lead by example. Garen, the valiant warrior who bears the title ''the Might of Demacia'', is the paradigm to which these leaders are compared. Thousands of great heroes have risen and fallen on the bloody battlefields between Demacia and its preeminent rival, Noxus. It was beneath their mighty banners of war that Garen first met steel with Katarina, the Sinister Blade. The infantrymen who beheld this event (and survived) commented that it seemed as though the two were locked in a mortal waltz against a symphony of clashing blades.<br><br>Garen, the pride of the Demacian military and leader of the Dauntless Vanguard, returned from this battle breathless for the first time in his career, though some speculate that this was due to reasons other than exhaustion. The plausibility of these rumors was bolstered when, in every instance thereafter, Garen seized the opportunity to encounter the Sinister Blade again. A paragon of Demacian ethic, Garen never entertained such allegations, for he knew others couldn't understand. Even simply the pursuit of a worthy opponent on the battlefield is, to a true warrior, the reason to rise each morning. The promise of one, particularly so beautifully and diametrically opposed, is the validation of his existence. <br><br>''The most effective way to kill an opponent is to slice through the man next to him.''<br>-- Garen, on front line strategy","blurb":"Throughout Valoran, the resolve of Demacia's military is alternately celebrated or despised, but always respected. Their ''zero tolerance'' moral code is strictly upheld by civilians and soldiers alike. In combat, this means Demacian troops may not make...","allytips":["Garen's regeneration greatly increases if he can avoid receiving damage for several seconds.","Judgment deals maximum damage when only hitting a single target. For effective trading, try to position such that only the enemy champion is hit.","Garen is only constrained by cooldowns, making items such as Black Cleaver very effective for him."],"enemytips":["Stack armor items to lower the large amount of physical damage that Garen deals out.","Try to run away from Garen as your health gets lower, as he can execute you quickly with Demacian Justice.","Be careful about attacking Garen in brush. It often will lead to taking full damage from Judgment.","Judgment deals maximum damage when only hitting a single target. If getting out of its radius isn't possible, move through allied minions to reduce damage taken."]},"89":{"id":89,"key":"Leona","name":"Leona","title":"the Radiant Dawn","image":{"full":"Leona.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":48,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Imbued with the fire of the sun, Leona is a holy warrior of the Solari who defends Mount Targon with her Zenith Blade and the Shield of Daybreak. Her skin shimmers with starfire while her eyes burn with the power of the celestial Aspect within her. Armored in gold and bearing a terrible burden of ancient knowledge, Leona brings enlightenment to some, death to others.","blurb":"Imbued with the fire of the sun, Leona is a holy warrior of the Solari who defends Mount Targon with her Zenith Blade and the Shield of Daybreak. Her skin shimmers with starfire while her eyes burn with the power of the celestial Aspect within her...","allytips":["Lead the charge and mark your foes with Sunlight before your allies deal damage.","Shield of Daybreak and Zenith Blade form a powerful offensive combo.","You can absorb a huge amount of damage using Eclipse, but you must stay near enemies to gain the bonus duration."],"enemytips":["When Leona activates Eclipse, you have three seconds to get away from her before she deals damage.","Only foes in the center of Solar Flare get stunned, so you can often avoid this if you're quick."]},"90":{"id":90,"key":"Malzahar","name":"Malzahar","title":"the Prophet of the Void","image":{"full":"Malzahar.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":336,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"A religious zealot dedicated to the unification of all life, Malzahar truly believes the newly emergent Void to be the gateway to Runeterra's salvation. In the desert wastes of Shurima, he opened his mind to the universe, and the whispers that answered led him to Icathia. Amidst the ruins of that land, he gazed into the dark heart of the Void itself—and Malzahar emerged changed, a shepherd empowered to bring others into the fold… or to release the voidling creatures that dwell beneath.","blurb":"A religious zealot dedicated to the unification of all life, Malzahar truly believes the newly emergent Void to be the gateway to Runeterra's salvation. In the desert wastes of Shurima, he opened his mind to the universe, and the whispers that answered...","allytips":["Wait to cast Void Swarm until there are nearby enemies for the Voidling to attack or kill.","Use Call of the Void and Nether Grasp to renew the duration of Malefic Visions on enemies.","Avoiding damage in lane maximizes the uptime on Void Shift, increasing Malzahar's safety dramatically."],"enemytips":["When Malzahar hits a spell on enemies affected by Malefic Visions, the Visions are refreshed.","Avoid minion waves that have been affected by Malefic Visions. You never know when they may die and pass the Visions onto you.","Malzahar is especially dangerous when he has built up his Void Swarm."]},"91":{"id":91,"key":"Talon","name":"Talon","title":"the Blade's Shadow","image":{"full":"Talon.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":384,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"''The three deadliest blademasters in all of Valoran are bound to the house of Du Couteau: my father, myself, and Talon. Challenge us, if you dare.''<br>-- Katarina Du Couteau<br><br>Talon's earliest memories are the darkness of Noxus' underground passages and the reassuring steel of a blade. He remembers no family, warmth, or kindness. Instead, the clink of stolen gold and the security of a wall at his back are all the kinship he has ever craved. Kept alive only by his quick wits and deft thievery, Talon scraped out a living in the seedy underbelly of Noxus. His mastery of the blade quickly marked him as a threat, and Noxian guilds sent assassins to him with a demand: join their ranks or be killed. He left the bodies of his pursuers dumped in Noxus' moat as his response.<br><br>The assassination attempts grew increasingly frequent until one assailant met Talon blade-for-blade in a match of strength. To his surprise, Talon was disarmed and facing down his executioner's sword when the assassin revealed himself to be General Du Couteau. The General offered Talon the choice between death at his hand, or life as an agent of the Noxian High Command. Talon chose life, on the condition that his service was to Du Couteau alone, for the only type of orders he could respect were from one he could not defeat.<br><br>Talon remained in the shadows, carrying out secret missions on Du Couteau's orders that took him from the frigid lands of the Freljord to the inner sanctums of Demacia itself. When the general vanished, Talon considered claiming his freedom, but he had gained immense respect for Du Couteau after years in his service. He became obsessed with tracking down the general's whereabouts, and scours the land in search of those responsible for Du Couteau's disappearance.","blurb":"''The three deadliest blademasters in all of Valoran are bound to the house of Du Couteau: my father, myself, and Talon. Challenge us, if you dare.''<br>-- Katarina Du Couteau<br><br>Talon's earliest memories are the darkness of Noxus' underground...","allytips":["You can use Assassin's Path to get behind the enemy and set up for Noxian Diplomacy's melee attack.","Shadow Assault is a powerful escape tool, but can also be offensively used to assault a group.","Remember to pick your target before the fight. Focusing all of Talon's abilities on one target can be very rewarding, but splitting them up between many may leave you helpless."],"enemytips":["Talon's attacks are all physical damage. Build armor early to counter his burst damage.","Talon is heavily reliant on Shadow Assault to escape a fight. When it is down he's significantly more vulnerable.","Talon has unrivaled roaming ability. Make sure to keep track of his position or force him to stay in lane by pushing aggressively."]},"92":{"id":92,"key":"Riven","name":"Riven","title":"the Exile","image":{"full":"Riven.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":48,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"''There is a place between war and murder in which our demons lurk.''<br><br>In Noxus, any citizen may rise to power regardless of race, gender, or social standing - strength is all that matters. It was with committed faith in this ideal that Riven strove to greatness. She showed early potential as a soldier, forcing herself to master the weight of a long sword when she was barely its height. She was ruthless and efficient as a warrior, but her true strength lay in her conviction. She entered battles without any trace of doubt in her mind: no ethical pause, no fear of death.<br><br>Riven became a leader amongst her peers; a poster child of the Noxian spirit. So exceptional was her passion that the High Command recognized her with a black stone rune sword forged and enchanted with Noxian sorcery. The weapon was heavier than a kite shield and nearly as broad - perfectly suited to her tastes. Soon after, she was deployed to Ionia as part of the Noxian invasion.<br><br>What began as war quickly became extermination. Noxian soldiers followed the terrifying Zaunite war machines across fields of death. It wasn't the glorious combat for which Riven trained. She carried out the orders of her superiors, terminating the remnants of a beaten and fractured enemy with extreme prejudice.<br><br>As the invasion continued, it became clear that the Ionian society would not be reformed, merely eliminated. During one bitter engagement, Riven's unit became surrounded by Ionian forces. They called for support as the enemy closed in around them. What they received instead was a barrage of biochemical terror launched by Singed. Riven watched as around her Ionian and Noxian alike fell victim to an unspeakably gruesome fate. She managed to escape the bombardment, though she could not erase the memory.<br><br>Counted dead by Noxus, she saw an opportunity to start anew. She shattered her sword, severing ties with the past, and wandered in self-imposed exile - on a quest to seek atonement and a way to save the pure Noxian vision in which she believed.","blurb":"''There is a place between war and murder in which our demons lurk.''<br><br>In Noxus, any citizen may rise to power regardless of race, gender, or social standing - strength is all that matters. It was with committed faith in this ideal that Riven...","allytips":["Riven's Broken Wings locks onto the champion your cursor is over at the time of cast. If you want to move past your opponent, make sure that your cursor is past your opponent as well.","Riven lacks a source of healing or strong defense and must compensate with burst combos. Lead into fights with Broken Wings and Ki Burst, while using Valor to escape and absorb counter-harass."],"enemytips":["Riven has a great deal of mobility but she cannot move very far with any one skill. Rooting or silencing her during her combo will greatly reduce her effectiveness.","All of Riven's damage is physical, prioritize high Armor if an opposing Riven gets out of control.","Riven excels at dueling multiple melee attackers at once, as she will be on an almost equal footing damage-wise. If pairing up against Riven, don't go in as double melee until she has expended her full combo."]},"96":{"id":96,"key":"KogMaw","name":"Kog'Maw","title":"the Mouth of the Abyss","image":{"full":"KogMaw.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":384,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Belched forth from a rotting Void incursion deep in the wastelands of Icathia, Kog'Maw is an inquisitive yet putrid creature with a caustic, gaping mouth. This particular Void-spawn needs to gnaw and drool on anything within reach to truly understand it. Though not inherently evil, Kog'Maw's beguiling naiveté is dangerous, as it often precedes a feeding frenzy—not for sustenance, but to satisfy its unending curiosity.","blurb":"Belched forth from a rotting Void incursion deep in the wastelands of Icathia, Kog'Maw is an inquisitive yet putrid creature with a caustic, gaping mouth. This particular Void-spawn needs to gnaw and drool on anything within reach to truly understand it...","allytips":["Kog'Maw can outrange most champions with his Bio-Arcane Barrage ability.","Use Void Ooze to set up a perfect Living Artillery.","Make the most out of your Icathian Surprise."],"enemytips":["Kog'Maw doesn't have a good escape ability, so he is especially prone to ganks.","Run away from Kog'Maw after he dies!!!!","The range on Living Artillery increases each rank.","Bio-Arcane Barrage allows Kog'Maw to kill Baron Nashor extremely early. It can be valuable to ward Nashor when Kog'Maw completes his Blade of the Ruined King."]},"98":{"id":98,"key":"Shen","name":"Shen","title":"the Eye of Twilight","image":{"full":"Shen.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":288,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"''The Eye is blind to fear, to hate, to love - to all things that would sway equilibrium.''<br><br>Leader of a secret clan of mystic warriors, Shen serves as the Eye of Twilight, entrusted to enforce equilibrium in the world. Longing to remain free from the confusion of emotion, prejudice, or ego, Shen continually struggles, spirit blade in hand, to walk the unseen path of dispassionate judgment.","blurb":"''The Eye is blind to fear, to hate, to love - to all things that would sway equilibrium.''<br><br>Leader of a secret clan of mystic warriors, Shen serves as the Eye of Twilight, entrusted to enforce equilibrium in the world. Longing to remain free from...","allytips":["Keep an eye on allies and be ready to save them with your teleport.","Leverage your Energy to get a long-term advantage over Mana users."],"enemytips":["Be ready to dodge Shen's taunt and punish him if he misses.","Once Shen reaches level 6, watch out for his global-range ultimate, which can turn fights quickly."]},"99":{"id":99,"key":"Lux","name":"Lux","title":"the Lady of Luminosity","image":{"full":"Lux.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":240,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Born to the prestigious Crownguards, the paragon family of Demacian service, Luxanna was destined for greatness. She grew up as the family's only daughter, and she immediately took to the advanced education and lavish parties required of families as high profile as the Crownguards. As Lux matured, it became clear that she was extraordinarily gifted. She could play tricks that made people believe they had seen things that did not actually exist. She could also hide in plain sight. Somehow, she was able to reverse engineer arcane magical spells after seeing them cast only once. She was hailed as a prodigy, drawing the affections of the Demacian government, military, and citizens alike.<br><br>As one of the youngest women to be tested by the College of Magic, she was discovered to possess a unique command over the powers of light. The young Lux viewed this as a great gift, something for her to embrace and use in the name of good. Realizing her unique skills, the Demacian military recruited and trained her in covert operations. She quickly became renowned for her daring achievements; the most dangerous of which found her deep in the chambers of the Noxian High Command. She extracted valuable inside information about the Noxus-Ionian conflict, earning her great favor with Demacians and Ionians alike. However, reconnaissance and surveillance was not for her. A light of her people, Lux's true calling was the League of Legends, where she could follow in her brother's footsteps and unleash her gifts as an inspiration for all of Demacia.<br><br> ''Her guiding light makes enemies wary, but they should worry most when the light fades.''<br> - Garen, The Might of Demacia","blurb":"Born to the prestigious Crownguards, the paragon family of Demacian service, Luxanna was destined for greatness. She grew up as the family's only daughter, and she immediately took to the advanced education and lavish parties required of families as...","allytips":["Lux has great zone control abilities. Try to set up Lucent Singularity to prevent an enemy's advance or escape.","If you have trouble landing Prismatic Barrier, remember that it returns to you after it reaches max range. Try positioning yourself to hit your allies with its return trip.","Lucent Singularity is a great scouting tool. Try throwing it into brush before walking into it to check for ambushes."],"enemytips":["Lux has powerful zone control abilities. Try to spread out and attack from different directions so she cannot lock down a specific area.","When retreating with low health, be prepared to dodge Lux's Final Spark, a red targeting beam fires prior to the main beam, so try to move to the side if possible."]},"101":{"id":101,"key":"Xerath","name":"Xerath","title":"the Magus Ascendant","image":{"full":"Xerath.png","sprite":"champion4.png","group":"champion","x":432,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Xerath is an Ascended Magus of ancient Shurima, a being of arcane energy writhing in the broken shards of a magical sarcophagus. For millennia, he was trapped beneath the desert sands, but the rise of Shurima freed him from his ancient prison. Driven insane with power, he now seeks to take what he believes is rightfully his and replace the upstart civilizations of the world with one fashioned in his image.","blurb":"Xerath is an Ascended Magus of ancient Shurima, a being of arcane energy writhing in the broken shards of a magical sarcophagus. For millennia, he was trapped beneath the desert sands, but the rise of Shurima freed him from his ancient prison. Driven...","allytips":["It's easier to land Arcanopulse on an enemy when they're moving toward or away from you, rather than side to side.","Eye of Destruction will make landing Arcanopulse easier as the target will be slowed.","If you stun an enemy with Shocking Orb, follow up with a guaranteed center hit on Eye of Destruction."],"enemytips":["Xerath's range can be intimidating, but most champions who close distance with him can trade favorably.","Xerath takes a long time to engage Rite of the Arcane. Watch for his spellcast animation and start dodging.","Banshee's Veil will make it much harder for Xerath to land Shocking Orb on you."]},"102":{"id":102,"key":"Shyvana","name":"Shyvana","title":"the Half-Dragon","image":{"full":"Shyvana.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":336,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"A half-breed born from the union between dragon and human, Shyvana searched all her life for belonging. Persecution forged her into a brutal warrior, and those who dare stand against Shyvana face the fiery beast lurking just beneath her skin.<br><br>Dragonkind considered Shyvana's impure blood an abomination, and she spent her youth pursued relentlessly by one cruel drake. Constantly on the run, she and her father, an outcast dragon, never knew a lasting home. A brutal reflection of countless battles, Shyvana grew hateful and savage. After years of strife, her father finally fell to the other dragon, but not before gravely wounding his foe. Furious with grief, Shyvana pursued her father's murderer as he fled north to recover. There she encountered a group of humans on the trail of the same drake. Though the men looked upon her in fear, their leader approached Shyvana peacefully. He introduced himself as Jarvan IV, the Prince of Demacia, and offered to aid Shyvana in her quest for vengeance. Together they hunted down and confronted the vicious dragon that had slain her father. Shyvana did not expect the men to survive, but in the clash of fire and steel, Jarvan and his men fought with strength she had never believed humans to possess. The ironclad warriors drove their foe into submission, and Shyvana struck the final blow, tearing the beast's heart from its body. Inspired by her ferocity, Jarvan offered her a place in the ranks of his elite guard. Shyvana could still see fear in the eyes of his men, but she longed for a true home. Trusting Jarvan's word, she accepted his offer and now serves as a Demacian warrior. Though her human allies admire her power, they keep their distance. Shyvana strives to repay the prince's kindness with the power of the dragon within, but she cannot help but wonder if the humans are right to fear her.<br><br>''I have proven my might to dragonkind - what challenge shall humans pose?''<br>-- Shyvana","blurb":"A half-breed born from the union between dragon and human, Shyvana searched all her life for belonging. Persecution forged her into a brutal warrior, and those who dare stand against Shyvana face the fiery beast lurking just beneath her skin...","allytips":["Shyvana's abilities all benefit from attacking units. As a result, Attack Speed items are more valuable on her than most champions.","Flame Breath is great to level-up against difficult lane opponents.","Burnout is an ideal choice for jungling. Monsters will be hit by the full duration, and the speed boost improves her ganking potential.","It can be valuable to purchase one of the items that can slow enemies: Frozen Mallet, Dead Man's Plate, or Entropy."],"enemytips":["A significant portion of Shyvana's power is generated through aggression, making her weak against opponents who are able to keep their distance.","All of Shyvana's basic abilities hit multiple enemies in dragon form. It's important for opposing champions to not cluster while fighting her.","Shyvana's Fury Bar indicate her ultimate can be activated. Harassing her when she's low on Fury can be very effective."]},"103":{"id":103,"key":"Ahri","name":"Ahri","title":"the Nine-Tailed Fox","image":{"full":"Ahri.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":48,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Innately connected to the latent power of Runeterra, Ahri is a vastaya who can reshape magic into orbs of raw energy. She revels in toying with her prey by manipulating their emotions before devouring their life essence. Despite her predatory nature, Ahri retains a sense of empathy as she receives flashes of memory from each soul she consumes.","blurb":"Innately connected to the latent power of Runeterra, Ahri is a vastaya who can reshape magic into orbs of raw energy. She revels in toying with her prey by manipulating their emotions before devouring their life essence. Despite her predatory nature...","allytips":["Use Charm to set up your combos, it will make landing Orb of Deception and Fox-Fire dramatically easier.","Initiate team fights using Charm, and chase down stragglers with Spirit Rush.","Spirit Rush enables Ahri's abilities, it opens up paths for Charm, helps double hitting with Orb of Deception, and closes to make use of Fox-Fire."],"enemytips":["Ahri's survivability is dramatically reduced when her Ultimate, Spirit Rush, is down.","Stay behind minions to make Charm difficult to land, this will reduce Ahri's damage potential significantly."]},"104":{"id":104,"key":"Graves","name":"Graves","title":"the Outlaw","image":{"full":"Graves.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":240,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Malcolm Graves is a wanted man in every realm, city and empire he has visited. Tough, strong-willed, and above all, relentless, through his life of crime he has amassed (then invariably lost) a small fortune.","blurb":"Malcolm Graves is a wanted man in every realm, city and empire he has visited. Tough, strong-willed, and above all, relentless, through his life of crime he has amassed (then invariably lost) a small fortune.","allytips":["Smoke Screen can be used both to escape and to set up a kill.","Using Quickdraw to get into range and delivering a point blank Buckshot can do lots of damage."],"enemytips":["Graves deals mostly physical damage so Armor is an effective counter.","Leaving the Smoke Screen's area of effect removes the harmful effect immediately."]},"105":{"id":105,"key":"Fizz","name":"Fizz","title":"the Tidal Trickster","image":{"full":"Fizz.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":432,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Fizz is an amphibious yordle, who dwells among the reefs surrounding Bilgewater. He often retrieves and returns the tithes cast into the sea by superstitious captains, but even the saltiest of sailors know better than to cross him—many are the tales of those who have underestimated this slippery character. Often mistaken for some manner of capricious ocean spirit, he commands the huge, carnivorous beasts of the deep, and delights in confounding his allies and enemies alike.","blurb":"Fizz is an amphibious yordle, who dwells among the reefs surrounding Bilgewater. He often retrieves and returns the tithes cast into the sea by superstitious captains, but even the saltiest of sailors know better than to cross him—many are the tales of...","allytips":["Since Fizz can move through units, find opportunities in lane to walk through minions and apply Seastone Trident's passive - following it up with the ability's active attack after a few seconds.","Fizz's ultimate ability, Chum the Waters, can be aimed at an enemy or towards the area where you think they'll be going.","Fizz's spells scale off Ability Power - consider getting items like Zhonya's Hourglass or Banshee's Veil against teams that have high burst threat - and items like Lich Bane or Rabadon's Deathcap if you think you can survive without the Health."],"enemytips":["Fizz becomes extremely deadly if his damage over time ability ticks on you for a few seconds - keep him away until it falls off!","Fizz is a slippery target when his abilities are not on cooldown - bait him into using them early and follow up with crowd control or hard-hitting attacks!"]},"106":{"id":106,"key":"Volibear","name":"Volibear","title":"the Thunder's Roar","image":{"full":"Volibear.png","sprite":"champion4.png","group":"champion","x":288,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"The unforgiving northern reaches of the Freljord are home to the Ursine, a fierce and warlike race that has endured the barren tundra for thousands of years. Their leader is a furious adversary who commands the force of lightning to strike fear within his foes: Volibear. Both a warrior and a mystic, Volibear seeks to defend the ancient ways and the warrior spirit of his tribe.<br><br>Though history recorded their once legendary feats in battle, the Ursine now lived in tranquil seclusion. The warriors were headed by a triumvirate of leaders who maintained a long-lived isolation, avoiding the petty affairs and conflicts of others. As shaman to the three, Volibear was a respected sage known for his insight. It was an era of unprecedented peace, but Volibear felt dread stirring within him. Prosperity was turning the tribe soft and weak, and many had long forgotten the sacred art of war. In time, Volibear felt the fire of their souls would be extinguished. When he revealed his misgivings to the triumvirate, they refused to listen and warned him to know his place.<br><br>Seeking wisdom, Volibear undertook a perilous climb to the peak of the Ursine's sacred mountain, a place forever shrouded in a thundering maelstrom. The eye of the storm was said to bestow portents, and legend held that the tempest would mark the next great chieftain of the tribe. As Volibear ascended the peak, he was struck by an unnatural bolt of lightning. When the shaman awoke, he was possessed by a horrific vision of the Freljord utterly consumed by darkness. Volibear saw an unprepared and complacent Ursine force slaughtered by terrible creatures of ice. In an instant, he knew his race would perish if they did not prepare for war.<br><br>Volibear rushed down the mountainside to recount what he had seen, but found the path blocked by three Ursine - the triumvirate. Knowing he would end the lasting peace, they refused to heed Volibear's warning and demanded his silence, by his word - or his death. Resolute and adamant, Volibear swore that the Ursine's very survival depended on his message, and launched into ferocious combat against the three. A terrible clash ensued, and just as Volibear succumbed to his opponents, he called upon the power of the maelstrom. Unleashing raw lightning, he struck the trio down with a thunderous blow. Stunned and astonished, the triumvirate beheld the sign of Ursine leadership: the force of the sacred storm.<br><br>Recognizing his foretold ascendance, the triumvirate appointed Volibear as the Ursine's new leader. His influence was swift and decisive: he roused his tribe from complacency, revived their battle-hardened traditions, and allied with Sejuani, the warrior who would fight with them against the coming evil. With time, the tribe grew lean and fierce, becoming known again as fearsome warriors of legend. Volibear and the Ursine now stand ready for the dark day that looms on the icy horizon.<br><br>''The Ursine cannot know peace without war.''<br><br>-- Volibear","blurb":"The unforgiving northern reaches of the Freljord are home to the Ursine, a fierce and warlike race that has endured the barren tundra for thousands of years. Their leader is a furious adversary who commands the force of lightning to strike fear within...","allytips":["Lead the charge with Rolling Thunder and slow enemies with Majestic Roar.","Volibear benefits a great deal from additional Health and cooldown reduction.","You must attack three times in rapid succession before Frenzy can be activated - having the toughness to survive for a long time is one way to accomplish this goal."],"enemytips":["Volibear can gain great Movement Speed while chasing targets, but he gains much less of a bonus when running away.","Volibear regenerates a large amount of Health when he drops to critical Health.","Slowing or stunning Volibear when he tries to charge will greatly reduce his effectiveness."]},"107":{"id":107,"key":"Rengar","name":"Rengar","title":"the Pridestalker","image":{"full":"Rengar.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":0,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Rengar is a ferocious vastayan trophy hunter who lives for the thrill of tracking down and killing dangerous creatures. He scours the world for the most fearsome beasts he can find, especially seeking any trace of Kha'Zix, the void creature who scratched out his eye. Rengar stalks his prey neither for food nor glory, but for the sheer beauty of the pursuit.","blurb":"Rengar is a ferocious vastayan trophy hunter who lives for the thrill of tracking down and killing dangerous creatures. He scours the world for the most fearsome beasts he can find, especially seeking any trace of Kha'Zix, the void creature who...","allytips":["Use Rengar's ultimate to find and assassinate high priority targets in team fights and skirmishes.","A lot of Rengar's power comes from empowered abilities he uses at the right moment - choose wisely!","Make sure to take paths through brush when chasing opponents to take advantage of Rengar's passive."],"enemytips":["Rengar gains an empowered ability when his resource bar is full. Try to confront him when it's low.","Rengar's passive enables him to leap out of brush, so avoid fighting him when near bushes.","Rengar puts an indicator over the nearest enemy champion when he is camouflaged during his ultimate."]},"110":{"id":110,"key":"Varus","name":"Varus","title":"the Arrow of Retribution","image":{"full":"Varus.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":432,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"''The life of an arrow is fleeting, built of nothing but direction and intent.''<br><br>For his incomparable skill with the bow and his unquestioned sense of honor, Varus was chosen to be the warden of a sacred Ionian temple. The temple was built to contain an ancient pit of corruption so vile that Ionian Elders feared it could envelop the island in darkness. Varus prided himself on his position, as only the most exceptional Ionian warriors were selected for the role. He lived with his family in a nearby village and led a quiet life of disciplined routine until the day the forces of Noxus invaded Ionia. Their shock troops left nothing but death and desolation in their wake, and the temple lay in their path. Varus was forced to make a decision. He was bound by honor to stay and defend the temple, but without him the village's few inhabitants could offer little resistance against the oncoming war machine. Gravely, he chose to fulfill his duty as a warden. The corruption could not be allowed to escape.<br><br>His arrows sundered the troops who tried to wrest the temple from him that day. However, when he returned to the village, he found that it had been reduced to a smoldering graveyard. Remorse at the sight of his slain family gave way to overwhelming regret, and then to seething hatred. He swore to slaughter every Noxian invader, but first he needed to become stronger. He turned to that which he had sacrificed everything to protect. The pit of corruption would consume him wholly, as a flame devours a wick, but its abominable power would burn within him until he was lost. This was a path from which there could be no return. With grim resolve, he condemned himself to the black flames, feeling malevolent energy bond to his skin...and with it, the promise of ruin. He left, seeking the blood of all Noxians involved with the invasion, a grisly task that eventually led him to the invasion's most infamous perpetrators.","blurb":"''The life of an arrow is fleeting, built of nothing but direction and intent.''<br><br>For his incomparable skill with the bow and his unquestioned sense of honor, Varus was chosen to be the warden of a sacred Ionian temple. The temple was built to...","allytips":["An early point in Blighted Quiver helps harass enemy champions and get killing blows on minions.","During short range fights it's sometimes best to fire Piercing Arrow quickly, rather than charging it to full power.","Try to take advantage of Piercing Arrow's very long range to snipe at enemy champions before a fight or as they're trying to flee."],"enemytips":["If you are affected by Blight, Varus' abilities will deal extra damage to you.","When he gets a kill or assist, Varus temporarily gains Attack Speed and is much more dangerous.","You'll get bound in place if a tendril from Varus' ultimate, Chain of Corruption, reaches you. You can cause the tendril to die however by running far enough away from it."]},"111":{"id":111,"key":"Nautilus","name":"Nautilus","title":"the Titan of the Depths","image":{"full":"Nautilus.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":288,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Once, Nautilus was a sailor commissioned by the Institute of War to explore the uncharted reaches of the Guardian's Sea. This expedition took him deep into unknown waters where he and his crew found a vast section of black oozing liquid that none of the crew could identify. Though their job was to investigate anything new that they found, no man aboard was willing to brave the murk except Nautilus. Only moments after he donned the hulking diver's suit and climbed over the ship's rail, something lurking in the muck grabbed hold of him. He clung to the side of the ship, but the thing below pulled him fiercely, rocking the entire ship. The other sailors grew afraid and made a terrible decision. As he stared and pled for help, they wrenched his grip free of the rail. He tumbled into the ink, grabbing the anchor in futile desperation. Dark tendrils enveloped him and he could do nothing but watch as the dimming outline of his ship faded away. Then everything went black.<br><br>When Nautilus awoke, he was something... different. The great iron suit had become a seamless shell around him, concealing whatever awful truth lay inside. All the details of his memory seemed fuzzy and indistinct but one fact remained clear: he was left here, alone in the sunless depths, to die. In his hands he still clutched the anchor that belonged to the men who had condemned him. Having no other purpose, he took this clue and trudged - too heavy to swim or run - in search of answers. He wandered without direction or sense of passing time in what felt like an eternal dream. By the time he stumbled upon the shores of Bilgewater, he could find no traces of the man he was. No house, no family, no life to which he could return. Terrified sailors who'd heard his tale directed Nautilus back to the Institute, but the summoners refused to relinquish the names of the others they commissioned. By then Nautilus had learned about the League of Legends and there he saw an opportunity to discover and punish those responsible for the time and life he lost.<br><br>''When consumed by utter darkness, there is nothing left but forward.''<br>-- Nautilus","blurb":"Once, Nautilus was a sailor commissioned by the Institute of War to explore the uncharted reaches of the Guardian's Sea. This expedition took him deep into unknown waters where he and his crew found a vast section of black oozing liquid that none of the...","allytips":["While ganking, consider aiming Dredge Line at nearby terrain and following it up with Riptide for a higher hit rate.","Riptide has a delayed blast timing on activation - you can use this while running away or when enemies are incoming to serve as a deterrent."],"enemytips":["If Nautilus uses Riptide right next to you, hold in place until the ripple effect finishes before running. Running early will run straight into the secondary explosions, causing you to take additional damage and slow.","While Nautilus is shielded, he is capable of dealing large amounts of area of effect damage with his basic attacks - consider taking down the shield if you have time."]},"112":{"id":112,"key":"Viktor","name":"Viktor","title":"the Machine Herald","image":{"full":"Viktor.png","sprite":"champion4.png","group":"champion","x":192,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Early in life, Viktor discovered his passion for science and invention, particularly in the field of mechanical automation. He attended Zaun's prestigious College of Techmaturgy and led the team that constructed Blitzcrank - a scientific breakthrough that he expected to vault him to the top of his profession. Unfortunately his triumph was usurped by Professor Stanwick, who stole credit for developing Blitzcrank's sentience and later used Viktor's research to revive Urgot. Viktor's appeals for justice fell on deaf ears, and he sank into a deep depression. He withdrew from the College and barricaded himself in his private laboratory, cutting all human ties.  There, in secret, he conceived a project for which nobody else could claim credit. Desiring both to revolutionize his field and to eliminate the jealous human emotions which festered inside him, he engineered parts to replace and improve his own body.<br><br>When Viktor re-emerged, almost no trace of the original man remained. Not only had he supplanted the majority of his anatomy, but his personality had changed. His previous hope to better society was replaced by an obsession with what he called ''the glorious evolution.'' He saw himself as the patron and pioneer of Valoran's future - a future in which man would renounce his flesh in favor of superior hextech augmentations. Though Viktor's initial appeals were met with heavy skepticism, scientists were confounded by the sophistication of his machinery. By integrating his mind with techmaturgical devices, he had been able to drastically accelerate the progress of his research.  His transformation had stripped him of what he perceived as his emotional weaknesses, but there was some lingering residue of resentment against the Professor. Viktor joined the League of Legends to pit his inventions against the greatest opponents Valoran could offer, and to correct any weaknesses or inefficiencies that remained.<br><br>''In one's hand, techmaturgy is a tool. As one's hand, it is liberation.''<br>-- Viktor","blurb":"Early in life, Viktor discovered his passion for science and invention, particularly in the field of mechanical automation. He attended Zaun's prestigious College of Techmaturgy and led the team that constructed Blitzcrank - a scientific breakthrough...","allytips":["Death Ray is a powerful poke and a strong area of denial tool. Use it in combination with Gravity Field to control your enemy's position.","Make sure you choose the right augment at the right time."],"enemytips":["Be careful about how close you let Viktor get to you. Viktor's control of the battlefield increases with his proximity to his opponent.","Be aware of how many augments Viktor has upgraded by looking at the color of the light on his staff (purple, yellow, blue, red)."]},"113":{"id":113,"key":"Sejuani","name":"Sejuani","title":"Fury of the North","image":{"full":"Sejuani.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":192,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Sejuani was weaned on hardship and reared on barbarity. Where others succumbed to the harshness of the Freljord, she was tempered by it until pain became power, hunger an encouragement, and frost an ally in culling the weak. Through her ordeals, she learned that to thrive in the endless winter, one must become just as cold and unforgiving. In Sejuani's eyes, her followers either have the mettle to endure or the right to die. Once she has conquered the Freljord, she knows that those who survive will form a nation to be feared.<br><br>As a child, the leader of the Winter's Claw watched her tribe's numbers slowly dwindle. Cold and starvation took all but the most resilient. She was the only one of her siblings to survive to her tenth year, leaving Sejuani sure that she too would die in misery. In desperation, she sought spiritual counsel from her tribe's mystic. But the seer did not foretell Sejuani's death. Instead, she prophesized that Sejuani would one day conquer and unite the divided tribes of the Freljord.<br><br>Armored with absolute faith in her destiny, Sejuani pushed herself to extremes that would have killed anyone without her will to endure. She walked into blizzards without food or furs and trained while frigid winds raked her flesh. She clashed with the strongest warriors of her tribe, one after another, until her legs gave out beneath her. When she assumed leadership of her tribe, Sejuani commanded her warriors to follow her example. Under her rule, the tribe grew stronger than they had ever been.<br><br>In the end, it was an offer of peace - rather than an act of war - that began Sejuani's campaign of conquest. On the first day of winter, envoys from Ashe's tribe approached Sejuani's camp bearing a gift of Avarosan grain. Ashe's intent was clear: if Sejuani united with her tribe, the Winter's Claw would never go hungry again. To Sejuani, the gift was an insult. In Ashe's tribe, she saw men and women, slight and soft, who preferred to farm instead of fight. Her contempt for them was absolute.<br><br>Sejuani gathered her people and set the grain alight. She proclaimed that Ashe's offer of charity would bring only weakness. Stripping the envoys of their supplies, Sejuani sent them back with a message: the Winter's Claw would prove to the Avarosan that only the strong deserve to survive in the Freljord. As the grain burned behind them, Sejuani rode out with her warband to inflict the first of many painful lessons to come.<br><br>''I was cut from the ice, shaped in the storms, hardened in the cold.''<br>-- Sejuani","blurb":"Sejuani was weaned on hardship and reared on barbarity. Where others succumbed to the harshness of the Freljord, she was tempered by it until pain became power, hunger an encouragement, and frost an ally in culling the weak. Through her ordeals, she...","allytips":["Use Arctic Assault to escape bad situations, interupt channeled spells or chase runners.","Melee allies can stack Frost for your Permafrost, keep an eye on who they are attacking.","Save Glacial Prison for encounters where you have teammates present to take advantage of it."],"enemytips":["Dodging Arctic Assault and Glacial Prison can give you a huge advantage.","Focus on avoiding the second swing of Winter's Wrath which carries the brunt of the damage.","Melee enemies can also stack Frost for Sejuani, be very careful around them."]},"114":{"id":114,"key":"Fiora","name":"Fiora","title":"the Grand Duelist","image":{"full":"Fiora.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":384,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"The most feared duelist in all Valoran, Fiora is as renowned for her brusque manner and cunning mind as she is for the speed of her bluesteel rapier. Born to House Laurent in the kingdom of Demacia, Fiora took control of the family from her father in the wake of a scandal that nearly destroyed them. House Laurent's reputation was sundered, but Fiora bends her every effort to restore her family's honor and return them to their rightful place among the great and good of Demacia.","blurb":"The most feared duelist in all Valoran, Fiora is as renowned for her brusque manner and cunning mind as she is for the speed of her bluesteel rapier. Born to House Laurent in the kingdom of Demacia, Fiora took control of the family from her father in...","allytips":["Thanks to Duelist's Dance, Fiora excels at quick trades. Use the movement speed boost from striking a Vital to escape unscathed or set up for the next one.","Grand Challenge allows Fiora to take down even the most durable opponents and then recover if successful, so do not hesitate to attack the enemy's front line."],"enemytips":["Duelist's Dance shows you where Fiora will try to attack from, so be ready to punish her when she tries.","Be careful when casting immobilizing disables on Fiora. If her Riposte is available, she can turn their power against you."]},"115":{"id":115,"key":"Ziggs","name":"Ziggs","title":"the Hexplosives Expert","image":{"full":"Ziggs.png","sprite":"champion4.png","group":"champion","x":240,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Ziggs was born with a talent for tinkering, but his chaotic, hyperactive nature was unusual among yordle scientists. Aspiring to be a revered inventor like Heimerdinger, he rattled through ambitious projects with manic zeal, emboldened by both his explosive failures and his unprecedented discoveries. Word of Ziggs' volatile experimentation reached the famed Yordle Academy in Piltover and its esteemed professors invited him to demonstrate his craft. His characteristic disregard for safety brought the presentation to an early conclusion, however, when the hextech engine Ziggs was demonstrating overheated and exploded, blowing a huge hole in the wall of the Academy. The professors dusted themselves off and sternly motioned for him to leave. Devastated, Ziggs prepared to return to Bandle City in shame. However, before he could leave, a group of Zaunite agents infiltrated the Academy and kidnapped the professors. The Piltover military tracked the captives to a Zaunite prison, but their weapons were incapable of destroying the fortified walls. Determined to outdo them, Ziggs began experimenting on a new kind of armament, and quickly realized that he could harness his accidental gift for demolition to save the captured yordles.<br><br>Before long, Ziggs had created a line of powerful bombs he lovingly dubbed ''hexplosives.'' With his new creations ready for their first trial, Ziggs traveled to Zaun and sneaked into the prison compound. He launched a gigantic bomb at the prison and watched with glee as the explosion tore through the reinforced wall. Once the smoke had cleared, Ziggs scuttled into the facility, sending guards running with a hail of bombs. He rushed to the cell, blew the door off its hinges, and led the captive yordles to freedom. Upon returning to the Academy, the humbled professors recognized Ziggs with an honorary title - Dean of Demolitions - and proposed that he demonstrate this new form of yordle ingenuity in the League of Legends. Vindicated at last, Ziggs accepted the proposal, eager to bring his ever-expanding range of hexplosives to the greatest testing grounds in the world: the Fields of Justice.<br><br>''Ziggs? Unpredictable, dangerous, yes yes. But quite brilliant!''<br>-- Heimerdinger","blurb":"Ziggs was born with a talent for tinkering, but his chaotic, hyperactive nature was unusual among yordle scientists. Aspiring to be a revered inventor like Heimerdinger, he rattled through ambitious projects with manic zeal, emboldened by both his...","allytips":["Even if you're far from a fight you can still help from afar with Mega Inferno Bomb.","Slowing your enemies with Hexplosive Minefield makes it easier to land other abilities.","Knocking yourself over walls with Satchel Charge can be great when chasing after or escaping from enemies."],"enemytips":["Don't step on Ziggs' mines! They'll slow you and make it much easier for him to hit you with his other abiltiies.","Many of Ziggs' abilities have long cooldowns. Try catching him just after he's used his abilities.","Ziggs' ultimate, Mega Inferno Bomb, deals more damage in the center of the explosion."]},"117":{"id":117,"key":"Lulu","name":"Lulu","title":"the Fae Sorceress","image":{"full":"Lulu.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":192,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"The yordle mage Lulu is known for conjuring dreamlike illusions and fanciful creatures as she roams Runeterra with her fairy companion Pix. Lulu shapes reality on a whim, warping the fabric of the world, and what she views as the constraints of this mundane, physical realm. While others might consider her magic at best unnatural, and at worst dangerous, she believes everyone could use a touch of enchantment.","blurb":"The yordle mage Lulu is known for conjuring dreamlike illusions and fanciful creatures as she roams Runeterra with her fairy companion Pix. Lulu shapes reality on a whim, warping the fabric of the world, and what she views as the constraints of this...","allytips":["Glitterlance can be fired at odd angles depending on where your cursor is - Moving your cursor closer to Pix and Lulu will change your area of effect size considerably.","Consider casting Help, Pix! on ranged attackers for the Pix boost and Wild Growth on Tanks or Fighters for the added initiation power."],"enemytips":["The shots from Lulu's faerie can be intercepted - hide behind your minions to avoid the additional Faerie attacks.","Lulu excels when opponents heavily commit. Don't give her this chance! Use heavy harass tactics instead to force Lulu and her partner out of lane."]},"119":{"id":119,"key":"Draven","name":"Draven","title":"the Glorious Executioner","image":{"full":"Draven.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":48,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"In Noxus, warriors known as reckoners face one another in arenas where blood is spilled and strength tested—but none has ever been as celebrated as Draven. A former soldier, he found that the crowds uniquely appreciated his flair for the dramatic, not to mention the spray of blood from each of his spinning axes. Addicted to the spectacle of his own brash perfection, Draven has sworn to defeat whomever he must to ensure that his name is chanted throughout the empire forever more.","blurb":"In Noxus, warriors known as reckoners face one another in arenas where blood is spilled and strength tested—but none has ever been as celebrated as Draven. A former soldier, he found that the crowds uniquely appreciated his flair for the dramatic, not...","allytips":["If Draven doesn't move, Spinning Axe will fall near his present location. It will fall directly on him, or just to the right or left.","If Draven does move after attacking, Spinning Axe will lead him in the direction of his movement. Use this to control where the Spinning Axe will go."],"enemytips":["Launch skillshots toward the landing position of Draven's Spinning Axes.","Disrupt Draven with the goal of making him drop his axes. If you do, his power drops dramatically."]},"120":{"id":120,"key":"Hecarim","name":"Hecarim","title":"the Shadow of War","image":{"full":"Hecarim.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":288,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"''Break their ranks and ride them down without mercy. Crush the living and feast on their terror.''<br><br>Hecarim is an armored colossus who charges from the Shadow Isles at the head of a deathly host of spectral horsemen to hunt the living. A monstrous fusion of man and beast, cursed to ride for eternity, Hecarim revels in slaughter and crushing souls beneath his armored hooves.","blurb":"''Break their ranks and ride them down without mercy. Crush the living and feast on their terror.''<br><br>Hecarim is an armored colossus who charges from the Shadow Isles at the head of a deathly host of spectral horsemen to hunt the living. A...","allytips":["Spirit of Dread restores Health when nearby enemies take damage, including damage dealt by allies. Cast this during a large fight to maximize Hecarim's survivability.","Devastating Charge deals more damage based on the distance traveled. Try using Onslaught of Shadows or Summoner Spells such as Ghost or Flash to maximize this damage."],"enemytips":["Hecarim gains life from nearby enemies with Spirit of Dread but lacks durability, use burst damage.","Hecarim's ultimate causes opponents to flee in terror. Spread out to reduce his power in fights."]},"121":{"id":121,"key":"Khazix","name":"Kha'Zix","title":"the Voidreaver","image":{"full":"Khazix.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":240,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"A vicious Void predator, Kha'Zix infiltrated Valoran to devour the land's most promising creatures. With each kill he absorbs his prey's strength, evolving to grow more powerful. Kha'Zix hungers most to conquer and consume Rengar, the one beast he considers his equal.<br><br>When Kha'Zix crossed over into this world, he was fragile and ravenous. The animals he first encountered were too small to fuel the rapid evolution he craved. Kha'Zix focused his hunger on the most dangerous creatures he could find, risking his life to satisfy his need. With each kill he feasted and changed, becoming a stronger, faster predator. Kha'Zix soon chased his prey with unrestrained aggression, believing he was unstoppable. One day, while savoring a fresh kill, the predator became the prey. From cover a creature pounced in a blur of fangs and steel, tackling him to the ground. It roared in his face slashing and clawing, and Kha'Zix felt his blood spill for the first time. Screeching in fury, he sliced at the brute's eye driving it back. They fought from sunset to sunrise. Finally, near death, they reluctantly separated. As his wounds closed, Kha'Zix burned with anticipation at the idea of devouring one who could match the Void's strength. He resumed his search for powerful prey with renewed vigor. Someday, Kha'Zix will feast on Rengar.<br><br>''Kill. Consume. Adapt.''<br>-- Kha'Zix","blurb":"A vicious Void predator, Kha'Zix infiltrated Valoran to devour the land's most promising creatures. With each kill he absorbs his prey's strength, evolving to grow more powerful. Kha'Zix hungers most to conquer and consume Rengar, the one beast he...","allytips":["Enemies are considered isolated if they have no allies within a short distance. The damage of Taste Their Fear is massively increased against these targets.","Unseen Threat activates when Kha'Zix cannot be seen by the enemy team. Reactivate by using brush or Void Assault. Don't forget to apply Unseen Threat by autoattacking enemy champions.","Kha'Zix has a great deal of freedom to choose where and when to fight. Pick your battles carefully to succeed."],"enemytips":["Taste Their Fear deals bonus damage to targets that are isolated. Gain an advantage by fighting near allied minions, champions, or turrets.","Leap and Void Assault have long cooldowns. Kha'Zix is very vulnerable when these are not available."]},"122":{"id":122,"key":"Darius","name":"Darius","title":"the Hand of Noxus","image":{"full":"Darius.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":432,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"There is no greater symbol of Noxian might than Darius, the nation's most feared and battle-hardened leader. Rising from humble origins to become the Hand of Noxus, he cleaves through the empire's enemies—many of them Noxians themselves. Knowing that he never doubts his cause is just, and never hesitates once his axe is raised, those who stand against the commander of the Trifarian Legion can expect no mercy.","blurb":"There is no greater symbol of Noxian might than Darius, the nation's most feared and battle-hardened leader. Rising from humble origins to become the Hand of Noxus, he cleaves through the empire's enemies—many of them Noxians themselves. Knowing that he...","allytips":["Decimate is a powerful harassment ability. Strike an enemy from maximum range for the greatest effect.","Noxian Guillotine does more damage the more attacks you can land prior to it. Use Noxian Might to deal maximum damage.","Darius benefits greatly from enhanced survivability. The longer you can prolong a fight, the more powerful he becomes."],"enemytips":["When Darius's axe grab is on cooldown, he is vulnerable to harassment attacks.","Darius's ability to escape from fights is limited. If you have an advantage against him, press your lead."]},"126":{"id":126,"key":"Jayce","name":"Jayce","title":"the Defender of Tomorrow","image":{"full":"Jayce.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":192,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Jayce is a brilliant inventor who has pledged his life to the defense of Piltover and its unyielding pursuit of progress. With his transforming hextech hammer in hand, Jayce uses his strength, courage, and considerable intelligence to protect his hometown. While revered throughout the city as a hero, he hasn't taken well to the attention heroism brings. Still, Jayce's heart is in the right place, and even those who envy his natural skills are grateful for his protection in the City of Progress.","blurb":"Jayce is a brilliant inventor who has pledged his life to the defense of Piltover and its unyielding pursuit of progress. With his transforming hextech hammer in hand, Jayce uses his strength, courage, and considerable intelligence to protect his...","allytips":["Be sure to switch stances often. It will enhance your attacks and grant you quick bursts of speed.","If you find yourself taking lots of damage, try using Jayce's Hammer Stance, as it grants you additional defenses.","For increased range and damage, try casting Shock Blast through the Acceleration Gate."],"enemytips":["Jayce can attack in melee or at range. Pay attention to his stance and weapon color to know how he is going to attack.","If you see Jayce drop his Acceleration Gate, be careful, he is probably about to cast Shock Blast.","Jayce is strong in the early game. If he gains the advantage, play defensively."]},"127":{"id":127,"key":"Lissandra","name":"Lissandra","title":"the Ice Witch","image":{"full":"Lissandra.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":96,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Lissandra's magic twists the pure power of ice into something dark and terrible. With the force of her black ice, she does more than freeze—she impales and crushes those who oppose her. To the terrified denizens of the north, she is known only as ''The Ice Witch.'' The truth is much more sinister: Lissandra is a corruptor of nature who plots to unleash an ice age on the world.","blurb":"Lissandra's magic twists the pure power of ice into something dark and terrible. With the force of her black ice, she does more than freeze—she impales and crushes those who oppose her. To the terrified denizens of the north, she is known only as ''The...","allytips":["You can instantly use your ultimate on yourself by pressing the self cast key and the ultimate key at once (alt+R by default).","Casting Glacial Path and then running in the opposite direction will leave your enemies uncertain which way you will actually go.","Lissandra's abilities are shorter range than those of many mages. As a result, buying items that offer both ability power and defense, like Zhonya's Hourglass and Banshee's Veil, can be a great choice to help her both survive and deal damage."],"enemytips":["The best way to stop Lissandra from moving using her Glacial Path is to immobilize her before she reactivates it.","Lissandra's Ring of Frost has a long cooldown at early ranks; engage her while it's on cooldown.","Lissandra's Ice Shard only slows the first unit it hits. Approach Lissandra from behind your team's minions to avoid being slowed."]},"131":{"id":131,"key":"Diana","name":"Diana","title":"Scorn of the Moon","image":{"full":"Diana.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":0,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Bearing her crescent moonblade, Diana fights as a warrior of the Lunari—a faith all but quashed in the lands around Mount Targon. Clad in shimmering armor the color of winter snow at night, she is a living embodiment of the silver moon's power. Imbued with the essence of an Aspect from beyond Targon's towering summit, Diana is no longer wholly human, and struggles to understand her power and purpose in this world.","blurb":"Bearing her crescent moonblade, Diana fights as a warrior of the Lunari—a faith all but quashed in the lands around Mount Targon. Clad in shimmering armor the color of winter snow at night, she is a living embodiment of the silver moon's power. Imbued...","allytips":["Landing Crescent Strike is critically important, but don't be afraid to miss. The cooldown is short and the mana cost is low.","Consider when to cast Lunar Rush without Moonlight and when to wait for another Crescent Strike.","Use Moonfall and Lunar Rush to stay on targets and activate Moonsilver Blade for extra damage."],"enemytips":["Dodge Crescent Strike, or move to safety if you are affected by Moonlight.","Pale Cascade orbs only last a few seconds. Avoid Diana and engage her after the shield dissipates.","Diana can play very aggressively if she uses Lunar Rush without Moonlight, but you can punish her by slowing or stunning her when she has no way to get back into position."]},"133":{"id":133,"key":"Quinn","name":"Quinn","title":"Demacia's Wings","image":{"full":"Quinn.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":240,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Quinn and Valor are an elite ranger team. With crossbow and claw, they undertake their nation's most dangerous missions deep within enemy territory, from swift reconnaissance to lethal strikes. The pair's unbreakable bond is deadly on the battlefield, leaving opponents ravaged and riddled with arrows long before they realize who they're fighting: not one, but two Demacian legends.<br><br>As a young girl, Quinn shared a hunger for adventure with her twin brother. They dreamed of becoming knights, but lived a quiet, humble life in the rural borderlands of Demacia. Together they imagined triumphant battles in faraway lands, seizing glory for their king and slaying foes in the name of Demacian justice. When daydreams alone could no longer satisfy their warriors souls, they embarked on daring wilderness adventures in search of true danger. One such quest turned to tragedy when a terrible accident claimed her brother's life. Overcome with grief, Quinn abandoned her dreams of knighthood. <br><br>On the anniversary of her loss, Quinn gathered the courage to return to the scene of the tragedy. To her surprise, she found a wounded Demacian eagle at the site of her brother's death - a rare and beautiful bird long believed extinct. Quinn nursed the fledgling back to health, and as they grew up together, a deep bond formed between the two. She saw the same quality in her newfound friend that had lived within her brother, and so she gave him the name ''Valor.'' The pair found strength in each other, and together they pursued the dream she had once abandoned. <br><br>The Demacian army had never seen heroes like Quinn and Valor. Their deadly skills quickly set them apart from their rank-and-file peers, but many still had their doubts. How could a common-born girl, even with such a powerful creature at her side, forego years of military training? Quinn and Valor proved themselves on one critical mission, tracking down a Noxian assassin who had evaded an entire Demacian battalion. When they brought him to justice, they finally earned the admiration and respect of their nation. The two now serve as living, fighting icons of Demacian strength and perseverance. Together, Quinn and Valor will stand against any threat to their beloved home.<br><br>''Most soldiers only rely on their weapons. Few truly rely on each other.''<br> -- Quinn","blurb":"Quinn and Valor are an elite ranger team. With crossbow and claw, they undertake their nation's most dangerous missions deep within enemy territory, from swift reconnaissance to lethal strikes. The pair's unbreakable bond is deadly on the battlefield...","allytips":["Attacking a ","Vulnerable"," target marked by Valor will put Harrier on cooldown. Quickly consuming Harrier marks will allow you to generate them faster.","Vault is powerful but must be used with caution, as enemies can attack Quinn when she strikes them. Vault can sometimes be used to cross terrain if your back is to a wall.","Use Behind Enemy Lines for traveling very long distances quickly, for farming minions around the map, or for chasing wounded targets."],"enemytips":["After being marked, move away from Quinn so she can't take advantage of it.","Keep tabs on Quinn's position. Behind Enemy Lines can enable Valor to cross the map very quickly and attack you by surprise.","When Quinn is using Behind Enemy Lines, damaging her will end the effect."]},"134":{"id":134,"key":"Syndra","name":"Syndra","title":"the Dark Sovereign","image":{"full":"Syndra.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":240,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Syndra is a fearsome dark mage with incredible power at her command. As a child of Ionia, she disturbed the village elders with her prodigious but reckless use of magic. They sent her away to be trained under strict supervision, but she quickly surpassed her mentor and discovered he was restraining her powers. Betrayed and disgusted by such cowardice, Syndra eliminated her teacher and struck out to destroy all who would try to limit her potential, dark spheres in hand.","blurb":"Syndra is a fearsome dark mage with incredible power at her command. As a child of Ionia, she disturbed the village elders with her prodigious but reckless use of magic. They sent her away to be trained under strict supervision, but she quickly...","allytips":["To maximize your ultimate's damage use it when there are many spheres on the battlefield.","After you hit an enemy champion with Force of Will follow up with Dark Sphere, they'll be slowed and have a hard time avoiding it.","Get one of your spells to rank 5 as quickly as possible, they gain powerful bonus effects at max rank."],"enemytips":["Get boots early when playing against Syndra, they'll help you avoid many of her spells.","Attack Syndra after she's used Scatter the Weak, it has a long cooldown so she'll be vulnerable.","At max rank Syndra's spells gain bonus effects and change in appearance."]},"136":{"id":136,"key":"AurelionSol","name":"Aurelion Sol","title":"The Star Forger","image":{"full":"AurelionSol.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":384,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Aurelion Sol once graced the vast emptiness of the cosmos with celestial wonders of his own devising. Now, he is forced to wield his awesome power at the behest of a space-faring empire that tricked him into servitude. Desiring a return to his star-forging ways, Aurelion Sol will drag the very stars from the sky, if he must, in order to regain his freedom.","blurb":"Aurelion Sol once graced the vast emptiness of the cosmos with celestial wonders of his own devising. Now, he is forced to wield his awesome power at the behest of a space-faring empire that tricked him into servitude. Desiring a return to his...","allytips":["You can use Comet of Legend's flight to grow Starsurge to massive proportions.","Save Voice of Light to use as a defense against melee opponents if you need to - otherwise, use its slow to start a fight at long range.","Comet of Legend allows you to move quickly around the map; use it to put pressure on other lanes."],"enemytips":["Try to get inside his orbit, since his stars can't hurt you up close.","His stars disappear while stunned or silenced, giving you an easy opportunity to fight him.","He gains speed while chasing in a straight line, but taking damage makes him lose that momentum.","His Starsurge ability can grow to cover a huge area - don't stay in the same place too long!"]},"141":{"id":141,"key":"Kayn","name":"Kayn","title":"the Shadow Reaper","image":{"full":"Kayn.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":144,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"A peerless practitioner of lethal shadow magic, Shieda Kayn battles to achieve his true destiny—to one day lead the Order of the Shadow into a new era of Ionian supremacy. He audaciously wields the sentient darkin weapon Rhaast, undeterred by its creeping corruption of his body and mind. There are only two possible outcomes: either Kayn bends the weapon to his will... or the malevolent blade consumes him completely, paving the way for the destruction of all Runeterra.","blurb":"A peerless practitioner of lethal shadow magic, Shieda Kayn battles to achieve his true destiny—to one day lead the Order of the Shadow into a new era of Ionian supremacy. He audaciously wields the sentient darkin weapon Rhaast, undeterred by its...","allytips":["Look at the line-up of both your team and the enemy's team when picking your form.","Remember that nearby enemies can see which wall you're in."],"enemytips":["Umbral Trespass requires Kayn to damage a target first. Try to dodge Blade's Reach to deny him a long range cast of Umbral Trespass.","When Kayn is in terrain near you, you will get a visual warning on the edge of the terrain he's in.","Damage Kayn while he's in Shadow Step to shorten its duration, or apply hard crowd control (stun, charm, knockup, etc) to end Shadow Step immediately."]},"142":{"id":142,"key":"Zoe","name":"Zoe","title":"the Aspect of Twilight","image":{"full":"Zoe.png","sprite":"champion4.png","group":"champion","x":336,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"As the aspect of youth, imagination, and change, Zoe acts as the divine messenger of Targon, heralding the major events that reshape worlds, before disappearing for hundreds or even thousands of years. Zoe's very presence alters the arcane mathematics which perhaps explains the breezy nonchalance with that she approaches the task and her tendency to focus instead on playing games, tricking mortals, or otherwise amusing herself. An encounter with The Everchild can be joyous and life affirming but it is always more than it appears... and always extremely dangerous.","blurb":"As the aspect of youth, imagination, and change, Zoe acts as the divine messenger of Targon, heralding the major events that reshape worlds, before disappearing for hundreds or even thousands of years. Zoe's very presence alters the arcane mathematics...","allytips":["Paddle Star deals more damage the further it has flown. Casting it behind yourself before redirecting can deal tons of damage.","Break Sleep with your biggest damage source, since enemies who are asleep take double damage.","Sleepy Trouble Bubble travels further over walls. Find a hiding spot to set up for a long distance kill."],"enemytips":["Zoe's Paddle Star deals more damage the further it has flown.","Zoe must return to her starting point after casting Portal Jump, making her vulnerable to a counterattack.","Sleepy Trouble Bubble travels further over walls. Stop Zoe from hiding in fog of war to prevent her from setting the spell up."]},"143":{"id":143,"key":"Zyra","name":"Zyra","title":"Rise of the Thorns","image":{"full":"Zyra.png","sprite":"champion4.png","group":"champion","x":384,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Longing to take control of her fate, the ancient, dying plant Zyra transferred her consciousness into a human body for a second chance at life. Centuries ago, she and her kind dominated the Kumungu Jungle, using thorns and vines to consume any animal that set foot in their territory. As the years passed, the animal population steadily died off. Food became increasingly scarce, and Zyra could only stand by helplessly as the last of her kin withered away. She thought she would perish alone, until the appearance of an unwary sorceress presented her with an opportunity for salvation.<br><br>It was the first time in years Zyra had sensed a creature wander so close. Hunger drew her to the sorceress, but some other, deeper instinct compelled her. She enveloped the woman in thorns with ease, but as she savored this final meal, foreign memories invaded her thoughts. She saw great jungles of metal and stone where humans and animals thrived. Potent magic surged through her vines, and she devised an elegant but risky plan to survive. Using the woman's memories, Zyra poured her newfound magic into the creation of a human-shaped vessel. She didn't know what sort of world awaited her, but she had nothing left to lose. When Zyra opened her eyes, she was overwhelmed by the raw power ready at her fingertips. It wasn't until she noticed the shriveled remains of the plant she once was that she realized how vulnerable she had become. If this body died, there would be no network of vines to retreat through, no roots to regrow her... but she felt truly alive. She beheld the world for the first time as animals did, and a dark smile crept across her lips. She was reborn, and there was so much now within her grasp.<br><br>''Closer to the flower, closer to the thorns.''<br>--Zyra","blurb":"Longing to take control of her fate, the ancient, dying plant Zyra transferred her consciousness into a human body for a second chance at life. Centuries ago, she and her kind dominated the Kumungu Jungle, using thorns and vines to consume any animal...","allytips":["Placing a seed in your spell's path after you have cast it gives you the best chance of having a seed in the proper spot.","Seeds grant vision to your team.","Zyra is a great ambusher - look for opportunities to set a trap of seeds in brush, then lure enemies in."],"enemytips":["Zyra's seeds can be destroyed by stepping on them. If she tries to grow them as you do, dodge back at the last moment. ","Moving closer to Zyra can be a smart move if she places plants too far away from herself.","Plants take fixed damage from attacks and effects, similar to wards. They also expire quickly on their own.","Moving the fight to a different area will deprive Zyra of accumulated seeds.","Seeds placed by Zyra's W are larger, a different color, and grant a small amount of vision to her team."]},"150":{"id":150,"key":"Gnar","name":"Gnar","title":"the Missing Link","image":{"full":"Gnar.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":144,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Gnar is a primeval yordle whose playful antics can erupt into a toddler's outrage in an instant, transforming him into a massive beast bent on destruction. Frozen in True Ice for millennia, the curious creature broke free and now hops about a changed world he sees as exotic and wondrous. Delighted by danger, Gnar flings whatever he can at his enemies, be it his bonetooth boomerang, or a nearby building.","blurb":"Gnar is a primeval yordle whose playful antics can erupt into a toddler's outrage in an instant, transforming him into a massive beast bent on destruction. Frozen in True Ice for millennia, the curious creature broke free and now hops about a changed...","allytips":["Managing your Rage is very important. Try to time out your transformations so you can get maximum benefit from both forms.","Position yourself next to walls to bait your enemies into getting stunned by your ultimate.","Know your strengths! Mini Gnar is fast, squishy, and has high sustained damage. Mega Gnar is slow, tough, and has high burst."],"enemytips":["Gnar can't gain Rage for 15 seconds after he turns from big to little. Use this chance to engage on his team.","Gnar's animations and resource bar change as he gets closer to transforming.  ","Gnar's ultimate stuns if he hits you into a wall. Be careful when fighting him near one."]},"154":{"id":154,"key":"Zac","name":"Zac","title":"the Secret Weapon","image":{"full":"Zac.png","sprite":"champion4.png","group":"champion","x":144,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Zac is the product of a toxic spill that ran through a chemtech seam and pooled in an isolated cavern deep in Zaun's Sump. Despite such humble origins, Zac has grown from primordial ooze into a thinking being who dwells in the city's pipes, occasionally emerging to help those who cannot help themselves or to rebuild the broken infrastructure of Zaun.","blurb":"Zac is the product of a toxic spill that ran through a chemtech seam and pooled in an isolated cavern deep in Zaun's Sump. Despite such humble origins, Zac has grown from primordial ooze into a thinking being who dwells in the city's pipes, occasionally...","allytips":["Picking up goo chunks is very important to staying alive.","When Cell Division is ready, try to die in a position that makes it difficult for the enemy team to kill your bloblets.","Charging Elastic Slingshot from the fog of war will give opponents less time to react."],"enemytips":["Zac heals from the goo that separates from him. You can crush the goo pieces by stepping on them.","Kill all of Zac's bloblets when he splits apart to stop him from reforming.","Silences, stuns, roots and knockups will all interrupt Zac when he is charging Elastic Slingshot."]},"157":{"id":157,"key":"Yasuo","name":"Yasuo","title":"the Unforgiven","image":{"full":"Yasuo.png","sprite":"champion4.png","group":"champion","x":48,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Yasuo is a man of resolve, an agile swordsman who wields the wind itself to cut down his foes. This once-proud warrior has been disgraced by a false accusation and forced into a desperate fight for survival. With the world turned against him, he will do everything in his power to bring the guilty to justice and restore his honor.<br><br>Formerly a brilliant pupil at a renowned Ionian sword school, Yasuo was the only student in a generation to master the legendary wind technique. Many believed he was destined to become a great hero. However, his fate was changed forever when Noxus invaded. Yasuo was charged with guarding an Ionian Elder, but, foolishly believing his blade alone could make the difference, he left his post to join the fray. By the time he returned, the Elder had been slain.<br><br>Disgraced, Yasuo willingly turned himself in, prepared to pay for his failure with his life. He was shocked, however, to find himself accused not just of dereliction, but of the murder itself. Though confused and racked with guilt, he knew the assassin would go unpunished if he did not act. Yasuo raised his sword against the school and fought his way free, knowing his treason would turn all of Ionia against him. Left truly alone for the first time in his life, he set out to find the Elder's real killer.<br><br>Yasuo spent the next several years wandering the land, seeking any clue that might lead him to the murderer. All the while, he was relentlessly hunted by his former allies, continually forced to fight or die. His mission drove him ever forward, until he was tracked down by the one foe he dreaded most - his own brother, Yone.<br><br>Bound by a common code of honor, the two warriors bowed and drew their swords. Silently they circled one another under the moonlight. When they finally charged forward, Yone was no match for Yasuo; with a single flash of steel he cut his brother down. Yasuo dropped his weapon and rushed to Yone's side.<br><br>Overcome with emotion, he demanded to know how his own kin could think him guilty. Yone spoke: ''The Elder was killed by a wind technique. Who else could it be?'' Understanding swept over Yasuo as he suddenly realized why he had been accused. He professed his innocence once more and begged his brother's forgiveness. Tears streamed down Yasuo's face as his brother passed in his arms.<br><br>Yasuo buried Yone under the rising sun, but could take no time to mourn. Others would be after him before long. His brother's revelation had given Yasuo newfound purpose; he now had the clue that would lead to the true killer. Swearing an oath, he gathered his belongings and, with one last look at Yone's grave, set out with the wind at his back.<br><br>''The story of a sword is inked in blood.''<br>-- Yasuo","blurb":"Yasuo is a man of resolve, an agile swordsman who wields the wind itself to cut down his foes. This once-proud warrior has been disgraced by a false accusation and forced into a desperate fight for survival. With the world turned against him, he will do...","allytips":["Dash through a minion to have Sweeping Blade available to chase your opponent should they flee; Dash directly to your opponent to preserve a minion as your escape route.","At level 18, Yasuo's Steel Tempest reaches its Attack Speed cap with 55% Attack Speed from items.","Last Breath can be cast on any target that is knocked Airborne, even by one of your allies."],"enemytips":["Steel Tempest is very narrow. Dodge laterally if possible. ","When Yasuo lands two Steel Tempests in a row, his next will fire a tornado. Watch and listen for the associated sound to prepare to dodge.","Yasuo is at his weakest just after he has launched a whirlwind. Engage at that point.","Yasuo's shield from Resolve lasts only 2 seconds. Dealing damage to him will trigger it. Wait it out, then engage."]},"161":{"id":161,"key":"Velkoz","name":"Vel'Koz","title":"the Eye of the Void","image":{"full":"Velkoz.png","sprite":"champion4.png","group":"champion","x":96,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"I pass into the sudden glare. Blink. Blink, blink, blink. My eyes adjust and evaluate the landscape before me.<br><br>There's a scurrying. I look down to find a small, white creature standing on its hind legs, sniffing at my body. It intrigues me.<br><br>What use are you?<br><br>I analyze the creature. A flash of hot magenta light, a dust pile where it was quivering.<br><br>Mammalian... Nocturnal... Impeccable hearing. Incredibly weak. Yet they breed so prodigiously.<br><br>''Hm,'' I mutter to myself. Hopefully there will be more complex things to be found; those fascinate me.<br><br>Consume and learn: this is my purpose. The others who travel with me are primitive: kill and eat, kill and eat. I need to gather all available information - harvest any valuable resources.<br><br>Eventually, we come upon a destroyed city, save for one pristine tower. It appears to be protected - or intentionally left standing. I deconstruct the composition of the ruins. My analysis suggests this habitat was a place of great magic; I'm not surprised it was a target of such destruction. There is something compelling about the tower. While the others are off scavenging, I enter the citadel.<br><br>Cryptic instruments are strewn about. I examine one. Another flash of hot magenta light, another dust pile.<br><br>Fascinating: a tool to alter their concept of time.<br><br>Strange.<br><br>Unprecedented.<br><br>From the state of the tower, it seems the owner departed only recently. The artifacts left behind have existed in more than one time and place. Some are more complex than others; all are more impressive than anything I have seen on this plane. Clearly, the owner knows things I have not encountered in any of my travels.<br><br>I require such knowledge.<br><br>Leaving the tower, I find the others closing in on the entrance, ready to destroy it as they have destroyed everything else we have met. They will only get in the way of my goal. There are some things the Void should not consume indiscriminately.<br><br>Without warning, I lash out a tentacle, its tip glowing white hot. Lightning arcs through the first creature, knocking it back. Its screams fade as I extend all three limbs, energy crackling between them, scorching the air where the streams meet. The other two run; they know what's coming.<br><br>Must they always flee?<br><br>I open my eye wide and unleash a beam of energy, following the escaping creatures. They are instantly reduced to ash. ''Hmm. Void-native melting point is inconsistent,'' I note.<br><br>But that is of no consequence. The hunger inside me grows. I am ravenous. Insatiable, as never before.<br><br>I have glimpsed the ultimate knowledge.<br><br>And I will have it.","blurb":"I pass into the sudden glare. Blink. Blink, blink, blink. My eyes adjust and evaluate the landscape before me.<br><br>There's a scurrying. I look down to find a small, white creature standing on its hind legs, sniffing at my body. It intrigues me...","allytips":["When laning, use Void Rift to kill minions while building stacks of Organic Deconstruction on your opponent. You can then follow up with your other abilities.","Shooting Plasma Fission diagonally and splitting at maximum range allows you to hit opponents that are out of the range of the initial missile, but is more challenging to pull off.","Be very careful about when to use Life Form Disintegration Ray. Many champions have abilities that can interrupt the spell."],"enemytips":["Vel'Koz is very dangerous if left alone in a fight. Try to focus him down early.","Vel'Koz has fairly low mobility and is vulnerable to ganks.","Life Form Disintegration Ray can be interrupted by stuns, silences and knockups."]},"163":{"id":163,"key":"Taliyah","name":"Taliyah","title":"the Stoneweaver","image":{"full":"Taliyah.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":336,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Taliyah is a nomadic mage from Shurima who weaves stone with energetic enthusiasm and raw determination. Torn between teenage wonder and adult responsibility, she has crossed nearly all of Valoran on a journey to learn the true nature of her growing powers. Compelled by rumors of the rise of a long-dead emperor, she returns to protect her tribe from dangers uncovered by Shurima's shifting sands. Some have mistaken her tender heart for weakness and paid the price for their error, for beneath Taliyah's youthful demeanor is a will strong enough to move mountains, and a spirit fierce enough to make the earth tremble.","blurb":"Taliyah is a nomadic mage from Shurima who weaves stone with energetic enthusiasm and raw determination. Torn between teenage wonder and adult responsibility, she has crossed nearly all of Valoran on a journey to learn the true nature of her growing...","allytips":["Try to throw enemies into Unraveled Earth using Seismic Shove.","Remember, you don't always have to ride Weaver's Wall.","Once you have Rylai's Crystal Scepter, casting Threaded Volley at enemies chasing you is a great way of making them regret everything."],"enemytips":["When Taliyah casts Unraveled Earth in the lane, be on the lookout for Seismic Shove. If she throws you into her minefield, the throws and stones will break your bones.","Taliyah's Threaded Volley is locked into a direction. If she's throwing rocks at you, dodge to the side!"]},"164":{"id":164,"key":"Camille","name":"Camille","title":"the Steel Shadow","image":{"full":"Camille.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":240,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Weaponized to operate outside the boundaries of the law, Camille is the Principal Intelligencer of Clan Ferros—an elegant and elite agent who ensures the Piltover machine and its Zaunite underbelly runs smoothly. Adaptable and precise, she views sloppy technique as an embarrassment that must be put to order. With a mind as sharp as the blades she bears, Camille's pursuit of superiority through hextech body augmentation has left many to wonder if she is now more machine than woman.","blurb":"Weaponized to operate outside the boundaries of the law, Camille is the Principal Intelligencer of Clan Ferros—an elegant and elite agent who ensures the Piltover machine and its Zaunite underbelly runs smoothly. Adaptable and precise, she views sloppy...","allytips":["Try waiting until the other team is distracted with fighting your team, and use Hookshot to pick off vulnerable targets.","Use the CC from your abilities to land both of your Precision Protocol attacks on enemies."],"enemytips":["Camille's shield only works against one damage type, so hit her when she's vulnerable to your damage.","The Hextech Ultimatum has a very short range to cast, so try to flash away from her before she gets close."]},"201":{"id":201,"key":"Braum","name":"Braum","title":"the Heart of the Freljord","image":{"full":"Braum.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":144,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Blessed with massive biceps and an even bigger heart, Braum is a beloved hero of the Freljord. Every mead hall north of Frostheld toasts his legendary strength, said to have felled a forest of oaks in a single night, and punched an entire mountain into rubble. Bearing an enchanted vault door as his shield, Braum roams the frozen north sporting a mustachioed smile as big as his muscles—a true friend to all those in need.","blurb":"Blessed with massive biceps and an even bigger heart, Braum is a beloved hero of the Freljord. Every mead hall north of Frostheld toasts his legendary strength, said to have felled a forest of oaks in a single night, and punched an entire mountain into...","allytips":["Work with your allies to stack Concussive Blows, encourage them to basic attack marked targets.","Leap in front of squishy friends and shield them from projectiles with Unbreakable.","Glacial Fissure leaves a powerful slow zone, position it well to split teamfights and slow the enemy approach."],"enemytips":["Braum must land Winter's Bite or a basic attack to start Concussive Blows. If you get marked, exit combat range before getting hit 3 more times to avoid the stun.","Braum's ultimate has a long cast time, use that extra time to dodge. Walking over the frozen ground left behind will slow you, position so that you don't need to cross it.","Unbreakable gives Braum extremely strong directional defense, either wait until it is down or outposition the ability."]},"202":{"id":202,"key":"Jhin","name":"Jhin","title":"the Virtuoso","image":{"full":"Jhin.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":240,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Jhin is a meticulous criminal psychopath who believes murder is art. Once an Ionian prisoner, but freed by shadowy elements within Ionia's ruling council, the serial killer now works as their cabal's assassin. Using his gun as his paintbrush, Jhin creates works of artistic brutality, horrifying victims and onlookers. He gains a cruel pleasure from putting on his gruesome theater, making him the ideal choice to send the most powerful of messages: terror.","blurb":"Jhin is a meticulous criminal psychopath who believes murder is art. Once an Ionian prisoner, but freed by shadowy elements within Ionia's ruling council, the serial killer now works as their cabal's assassin. Using his gun as his paintbrush, Jhin...","allytips":["Deadly Flourish has incredible range. When approaching a fight be sure to look ahead for enemies that could be rooted.","Your ultimate deals significantly less damage to enemies with full health. Look to pick off weakened targets as they run away.","You can still cast your spells while reloading. Use them to fill the down time."],"enemytips":["Deadly Flourish only roots those hit by one of Jhin's basic attacks, traps, or allies within the last 4 seconds.","Jhin places invisible traps around the map. Watch where you step!","Jhin's attacks are quite potent, but he runs out of ammo after the 4th shot. Use this window to jump him and burst him down."]},"203":{"id":203,"key":"Kindred","name":"Kindred","title":"The Eternal Hunters","image":{"full":"Kindred.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":288,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Separate, but never parted, Kindred represents the twin essences of death. Lamb's bow offers a swift release from the mortal realm for those who accept their fate. Wolf hunts down those who run from their end, delivering violent finality within his crushing jaws. Though interpretations of Kindred's nature vary across Runeterra, every mortal must choose the true face of their death.","blurb":"Separate, but never parted, Kindred represents the twin essences of death. Lamb's bow offers a swift release from the mortal realm for those who accept their fate. Wolf hunts down those who run from their end, delivering violent finality within his...","allytips":["Moving around between attacks while jungling will help you avoid damage and also generate more heals from Wolf's Frenzy.","Pick which Hunts you want to pursue carefully; getting many of them is the key to success as the game goes on.","Don't go in first to a large team fight. Wait for your teammates to initiate."],"enemytips":["Kindred is fragile - turn the pressure up on her, and she will be forced to play cautiously.","Clear the Hunts Wolf activates on jungle camps to slow down Kindred's damage output.","When Kindred uses Lamb's Respite get inside, it stops all champions from dying."]},"222":{"id":222,"key":"Jinx","name":"Jinx","title":"the Loose Cannon","image":{"full":"Jinx.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":288,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"A manic and impulsive criminal from Zaun, Jinx lives to wreak havoc without care for the consequences. With an arsenal of deadly weapons, she unleashes the loudest blasts and brightest explosions to leave a trail of mayhem and panic in her wake. Jinx despises boredom, and gleefully brings her own chaotic brand of pandemonium wherever she goes.","blurb":"A manic and impulsive criminal from Zaun, Jinx lives to wreak havoc without care for the consequences. With an arsenal of deadly weapons, she unleashes the loudest blasts and brightest explosions to leave a trail of mayhem and panic in her wake. Jinx...","allytips":["Rockets aren't always the best choice! Jinx's minigun is incredibly powerful when fully ramped up. Switch to it whenever an enemy champion gets too close.","Jinx's rockets deal full damage to all enemies in the explosion. Use them on minions in lane to hit nearby enemy champions without drawing minion aggro.","When a fight starts try to stay on the edge of fray by poking with rockets and Zap!. Do not run in and unload with the minigun until you feel it is safe."],"enemytips":["Jinx's minigun takes time to ramp up. If you see her poking with rockets try to jump on her and burst her down.","Jinx's ultimate does less damage the closer you are to her.","Jinx's snare grenades have a long cooldown and are her primary means of protecting herself. If she misses with them she will have a hard time escaping if engaged upon. "]},"223":{"id":223,"key":"TahmKench","name":"Tahm Kench","title":"the River King","image":{"full":"TahmKench.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":288,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"''The whole world's a river, and I'm its king.''<br>Tahm Kench travels Runeterra's waterways, feeding his insatiable appetite with the misery of the unsuspecting. The singularly charming gourmand savors every moment of his victims' suffering.  A deal with Two-Coats may carry you to wherever you wish, but your journey will most assuredly end in the depths of despair.","blurb":"''The whole world's a river, and I'm its king.''<br>Tahm Kench travels Runeterra's waterways, feeding his insatiable appetite with the misery of the unsuspecting. The singularly charming gourmand savors every moment of his victims' suffering.  A deal...","allytips":["Your most important function as a support is to keep fragile allies safe. Keep Devour's range and cooldown in mind and position accordingly!","Consider carefully when to use Thick Skin's active. Sometimes shielding early to avoid further damage is good, but sometimes the healing is more beneficial."],"enemytips":["When you see Tahm Kench use the shield from Thick Skin, remember that he just opted out of a good deal of healing. He will also not accumulate new gray health until Thick Skin comes off cooldown. Use this to your advantage!","If Tahm Kench harasses you by spitting minions at you, try going in for a trade right after he spits. His Devour will be on cooldown and you should be able to trade favourably if he can't eat you."]},"236":{"id":236,"key":"Lucian","name":"Lucian","title":"the Purifier","image":{"full":"Lucian.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":144,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Lucian wields relic weapons imbued with ancient power and stands a stalwart guardian against the undead. His cold conviction never wavers, even in the face of the maddening horrors he destroys beneath his hail of purifying fire. Lucian walks alone on a grim mission: to purge the spirits of those ensnared in undeath, his eternal beloved among them.<br><br>Like the twin relic weapons they wielded, Lucian and his wife Senna were carved from the same stone. Together they battled evil in Runeterra for years, bringing light to darkness and purging those taken by corruption. They were beacons of righteousness: Senna's dedication to their cause never faltered, while Lucian's kindness and warmth touched the hearts of the many lives they saved. Two parts of one whole, they were devoted and inseparable.<br><br>Though Lucian and Senna witnessed terror that would break most warriors, nothing they had seen compared to the horrors wrought by the Shadow Isles. When the spectral denizens of that accursed place began to manifest across Runeterra, Lucian and Senna hunted them down wherever they appeared. It was grim work, but the fearless pair prevailed until one tragic encounter with the soul-collector Thresh. Lucian and Senna had faced such nightmarish undead before, but never one so deviously clever and cruel. As the terrible battle unfolded, Thresh sprung an unexpected ploy. To Lucian's horror, the creature tricked Senna and ensnared her soul, trapping her in a spectral prison. Nothing could bring her back. Senna was lost, and for the first time, Lucian faced his mission alone. <br><br>Though the Warden had taken half of Lucian's heart, he had also created the Shadow Isles' most dangerous foe. Lucian became a man of dark determination, one who would stop at nothing to purge the undead from the face of Runeterra. In honor of Senna's memory, he took up her fallen weapon and vowed to see their mission through to the end. Now wielding both relic weapons, Lucian fights to slay the undead and cleanse the souls of the Shadow Isles. He knows that Senna's soul is lost, but never loses hope that one day he will bring her peace. <br><br>''Be grateful. By slaying you now, I spare you an eternity of torment.'' <br> -- Lucian","blurb":"Lucian wields relic weapons imbued with ancient power and stands a stalwart guardian against the undead. His cold conviction never wavers, even in the face of the maddening horrors he destroys beneath his hail of purifying fire. Lucian walks alone on a...","allytips":["For optimal burst, try to combine Relentless Pursuit into Piercing Light.","Ardent Blaze actually explodes in a star pattern. Try to line it up so the spokes hit enemy champions.","Once you have chosen an angle for The Culling, you cannot change it. Pick your moment well!","Because of Lightslinger, Lucian benefits more from Attack Damage than he does from Attack Speed."],"enemytips":["Lucian has strong burst, but little sustained damage.","Lucian cannot change the aim of The Culling. Take advantage of this by avoiding the angle of the bullets.","Piercing Light does not give Lucian extra Attack Range. He still needs to find a target in range to line up his shot. Avoid Piercing Light by anticipating the angle Lucian will choose."]},"238":{"id":238,"key":"Zed","name":"Zed","title":"the Master of Shadows","image":{"full":"Zed.png","sprite":"champion4.png","group":"champion","x":192,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Zed is the first ninja in 200 years to unlock the ancient, forbidden ways. He defied his clan and master, casting off the balance and discipline that had shackled him all his life. Zed now offers power to those who embrace knowledge of the shadows, and slays those who cling to ignorance.<br><br>An orphan, Zed was taken in and trained by a great ninja master. Only one other student appeared to be Zed's equal - the master's son, Shen. It seemed Zed could never win the favor of the master, as every match between the rivals ended in a draw. Frustrated and jealous, he sought an advantage. The young ninja ventured into a sealed part of the clan's temple, where he found an ornate, foreboding box. Sensing the dark knowledge within, Zed knew he should not open it, but he peered inside nonetheless. In an instant, shadows touched his mind, revealing techniques that had long been hidden. Now armed with a secret edge, he challenged Shen, and this time he defeated the master's son. He expected praise and recognition in his moment of victory, but somehow the master knew Zed had used forbidden ways, and banished him.<br><br>Humiliated, the young ninja wandered for years. His bitterness turned to ambition, and he began to train others in the style of the shadows. As his power grew, so did his circle of followers, but he knew that without the box, his technique would never be perfect. One day, Zed looked at his followers and saw that his students were now an army. He led them back to the temple to claim his prize. At the gates, he was surprised to find the old master waiting, receiving Zed and his disciples as if they were welcome guests. The old man laid his sword at Zed's feet, declaring that he had failed Zed as his master. By banishing his former student, the master had doomed Zed to the shadows, instead of leading him to the balanced path. The old man implored Zed to enter the temple, destroy the box, and lead his followers to balance. The dark ninja followed the master inside. Moments later, the assembled ninjas heard Zed cry out in pain. Mysteriously, he emerged unscathed, and threw the severed head of the master at Shen's feet. Screaming in rage, Zed commanded his followers to slaughter the master's students and seize the box.<br><br>That day, the old ninja order fell. Though many students died, some escaped thanks to Shen's heroic efforts. Now the temple is a dark training ground for the Order of the Shadow. Zed rules as the Order's master, and his edict is simple: perfect one's technique, and kill all ninjas who refuse to embrace the shadows.<br><br>''Balance is a lie - we are the true ninjas.''<br><br>-- Zed","blurb":"Zed is the first ninja in 200 years to unlock the ancient, forbidden ways. He defied his clan and master, casting off the balance and discipline that had shackled him all his life. Zed now offers power to those who embrace knowledge of the shadows, and...","allytips":["Saving energy and spell cooldowns until you use your ultimate will maximize Death Mark's damage.","Quickly double tapping Living Shadow will teleport Zed to his shadow immediately for rapid escapes.","Placing a Living Shadow before using Death Mark can give Zed a safe escape from combat."],"enemytips":["Zed receives bonus effect from Attack Damage items he purchases, so Armor is super effective against him.","After Zed uses his Living Shadow, he is at his most vulnerable as his damage, slow, and mobility are both dependent upon it.","Zed's Shadow Slash can only slow you if his shadow hits you with it. "]},"240":{"id":240,"key":"Kled","name":"Kled","title":"the Cantankerous Cavalier","image":{"full":"Kled.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":336,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"A warrior as fearless as he is ornery, the yordle Kled embodies the furious bravado of Noxus. He is an icon beloved by the empire's soldiers, distrusted by its officers, and loathed by the nobility. Many claim Kled has fought in every campaign the legions have waged, has “acquired” every military title, and has never once backed down from a fight. Though the truth of the matter is often questionable, one part of his legend is undeniable: Charging into battle on his un-trusty steed, Skaarl, Kled fights to protect what's his… and to take whatever he can get.","blurb":"A warrior as fearless as he is ornery, the yordle Kled embodies the furious bravado of Noxus. He is an icon beloved by the empire's soldiers, distrusted by its officers, and loathed by the nobility. Many claim Kled has fought in every campaign the...","allytips":["Kled generates some courage by killing minions, but gets much more from fighting Champions.","The last hit of Violent Tendencies deals more damage than the first three - make sure you hit it!","Chaaaaaaaarge!!! can be cast at a great range. Try and predict where the enemy team will be by the time you reach them."],"enemytips":["Kled generates courage by damaging enemies with his Pocket Pistol and basic attacks, killing minions, and attacking structures or epic monsters.","Watch Kled's courage bar when he's off his mount - when it reaches 100%, he will remount and regain a significant amount of health.","Kled is much more threatening when he has Violent Tendencies ready."]},"245":{"id":245,"key":"Ekko","name":"Ekko","title":"the Boy Who Shattered Time","image":{"full":"Ekko.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":144,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"A prodigy from the rough streets of Zaun, Ekko manipulates time to twist any situation to his advantage. Using his own invention, the Zero Drive, he explores the branching possibilities of reality to craft the perfect moment. Though he revels in this freedom, when there's a threat to his friends he'll do anything to defend them. To outsiders, Ekko seems to achieve the impossible the first time, every time.","blurb":"A prodigy from the rough streets of Zaun, Ekko manipulates time to twist any situation to his advantage. Using his own invention, the Zero Drive, he explores the branching possibilities of reality to craft the perfect moment. Though he revels in this...","allytips":["Chronobreak is a potent escape tool, but it can also be quite powerful when used offensively. Don't underestimate its damage potential.","If you can proc Z-Drive Resonance on an enemy champion, it's worth taking risks to do so. The bonus movement speed makes it easy to escape.","Phase Dive's dash is a great tool for setting up Ekko's other abilities. Use it to get double hits with Timewinder or get into position to detonate Parallel Convergence."],"enemytips":["Ekko is significantly weaker when his ultimate is down. Watch for the trail he leaves behind to determine if Chronobreak is available.","Ekko's stun zone takes 3 seconds to arm. Watch for the image he creates on cast and try to guess where the zone was placed.","The second hit of Timewinder does more damage than the first; try to avoid it."]},"254":{"id":254,"key":"Vi","name":"Vi","title":"the Piltover Enforcer","image":{"full":"Vi.png","sprite":"champion4.png","group":"champion","x":144,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Once a criminal from the mean streets of Zaun, Vi is a hotheaded, impulsive, and fearsome woman with only a very loose respect for authority figures. Growing up all but alone, Vi developed finely honed survival instincts as well as a wickedly abrasive sense of humor. Now working with the Wardens of Piltover to keep the peace, she wields mighty hextech gauntlets that can punch through walls and suspects with equal ease.","blurb":"Once a criminal from the mean streets of Zaun, Vi is a hotheaded, impulsive, and fearsome woman with only a very loose respect for authority figures. Growing up all but alone, Vi developed finely honed survival instincts as well as a wickedly abrasive...","allytips":["A fully charged Vault Breaker will deal double damage. It's great for catching and finishing off fleeing enemies.","Excessive Force does full damage to anyone caught in the shockwave. Use it on minions in lane to hit enemies hiding behind them.","Assault and Battery is a powerful initiation tool, just remember not to get too far ahead of the rest of your team."],"enemytips":["A fully charged Vault breaker deals double damage. If you see Vi start to charge you should back off or try to dodge it.","Vi will shred your Armor and gain Attack Speed if she manages to hit you three times in a row. Try not to engage in extended brawls with her.","Vi cannot be stopped while using her ult. Remember to save your displacement effects until after she's done charging."]},"266":{"id":266,"key":"Aatrox","name":"Aatrox","title":"the Darkin Blade","image":{"full":"Aatrox.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":0,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"One of the ancient darkin, Aatrox was once a peerless swordmaster who reveled in the bloody chaos of the battlefield. Trapped within his own blade by the magic of his foes, he waited out the millennia for a suitable host to wield him—this mortal warrior was corrupted and transformed by the living weapon, and Aatrox was reborn. Though tales of the darkin have now passed into legend, he remembers only too well the destruction of his race, and wreaks his vengeance one sword blow at a time.","blurb":"One of the ancient darkin, Aatrox was once a peerless swordmaster who reveled in the bloody chaos of the battlefield. Trapped within his own blade by the magic of his foes, he waited out the millennia for a suitable host to wield him—this mortal warrior...","allytips":["Being Hellbent contributes a significant amount of power in a fight, so avoid engaging with an empty Blood Well.","Building Life Steal or small amounts of defense can be very potent on Aatrox, giving him more time to get the most out of being Hellbent.","Massacre is great at turning the tide of a battle. Make sure to use it at the right moment to maximize its benefits."],"enemytips":["Aatrox is much more powerful while Hellbent, so be cautious fighting him if he's able to fill his Blood Well.","When Aatrox casts Dark Flight towards your location, avoid being knocked up by moving away from the center of impact.","Aatrox is reliant on basic attacks for most of his damage and survivability, reducing his attack speed by purchasing Randuin's Omen or Frozen Heart can help reduce both of those components greatly."]},"267":{"id":267,"key":"Nami","name":"Nami","title":"the Tidecaller","image":{"full":"Nami.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":192,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Nami channels the primal energies of the ocean, harnessing its mystical restorative properties and commanding the raw power of the tides themselves. Though many doubted her, Nami had the bravery and determination to take on a dangerous quest when no one else would. Now her people believe she is the Tidecaller, a chosen one destined to complete a quest essential to the survival of her entire race.<br><br>The Tidecaller's sacred duty is to acquire a moonstone, a powerful object found only in the towering reaches of the surface world. Her people, the Marai, rely on the moonstone's light to ward off the terrors of the depths. However, the stone's power lasts only one hundred years. Before its light fades, the Tidecaller must journey into the Great Deep, retrieve an abyssal pearl, and carry it to the surface. There, on the night of the winter solstice of the hundredth year, the Tidecaller makes a ceremonial exchange with a landwalker bearing a moonstone. By trading the pearl for the moonstone, the Tidecaller ensures the survival of the Marai for another century.<br><br>However, in Nami's time, as the hundred years drew to a close, no Tidecaller had been found. Without a chosen one to complete the quest, her people would face disaster, but the Marai waited in faith that the Tidecaller would appear. Nami refused to sit idle, insisting that without a Tidecaller to save them, someone had to act. Bravely, she decided to begin the quest herself and ventured alone into the dangerous depths. None expected her to survive, but after six days of battles with untold horrors, Nami returned with the pearl in hand. The Marai hailed her as the new Tidecaller. All that remained was for Nami to journey to the surface and complete the exchange.<br><br>When Nami arrived at the surface, however, she found only an empty shore. She waited for days in a mystic cove, unsure of what to do. In all the legends of the Tidecallers, the bearer of the moonstone had never failed to arrive. Nami faced a choice. She knew the surface world only through tale and rumor, but the survival of the Marai depended upon her. Summoning the tide to bear her ashore, Nami began her search for the moonstone and became the first of her kind to explore the world above the ocean. She left her home behind, and vowed not to return until she had completed the Tidecaller's quest.<br><br>''I am the tide, and I cannot be turned.''<br>-- Nami","blurb":"Nami channels the primal energies of the ocean, harnessing its mystical restorative properties and commanding the raw power of the tides themselves. Though many doubted her, Nami had the bravery and determination to take on a dangerous quest when no one...","allytips":["Aqua Prison has a long cooldown, make sure to use it at the right moment.","Using Ebb and Flow during an engagement with enemy champions will help sway the battle in your favor.","Nami's ultimate can come in very handy for initiating on enemies who are far away."],"enemytips":["Aqua Prison is a very powerful ability with a long cooldown, take advantage of the situation if Nami misses this ability.","Tidal Wave has a very long range but travels slowly, be aware of when it is coming your way as you can move out of its path.","Try to avoid fighting an opponent affected by Tidecaller's Blessing, it lasts a short duration so waiting it out can help you greatly."]},"268":{"id":268,"key":"Azir","name":"Azir","title":"the Emperor of the Sands","image":{"full":"Azir.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":432,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Azir was a mortal emperor of Shurima in a far distant age, a proud man who stood at the cusp of immortality. His hubris saw him betrayed and murdered at the moment of his greatest triumph, but now, millennia later, he has been reborn as an Ascended being of immense power. With his buried city risen from the sand, Azir seeks to restore Shurima to its former glory.","blurb":"Azir was a mortal emperor of Shurima in a far distant age, a proud man who stood at the cusp of immortality. His hubris saw him betrayed and murdered at the moment of his greatest triumph, but now, millennia later, he has been reborn as an Ascended...","allytips":["Be careful about putting down both of the soldiers stored by Arise! Unless you're going all-in, always have a soldier in your back pocket if you need to escape over a wall or if you misposition your other soldier and need damage now.","In the lane, try to position your soldiers between the enemy's minions and the enemy champion. This way you can use them both to last hit and to project threat onto your lane opponent.","Think of Emperor's Divide as a defensive ability first and foremost. Use it when the enemy engages on you or your allies. Remember that your team can walk through the soldiers summoned by Emperor's Divide and use this to your advantage when enemy melee champions engage on you.","Be a bird!"],"enemytips":["Azir relies on his soldiers to deal damage and can only move them so often. Try to capitalize on windows of time when his soldiers are stationary.","Azir has immense damage over a prolonged amount of time but lacks the upfront burst of other mages. Try to burst him out before he can turn a confrontation around.","Try to think of Sand Soldiers as fire. Don't stand in the fire."]},"412":{"id":412,"key":"Thresh","name":"Thresh","title":"the Chain Warden","image":{"full":"Thresh.png","sprite":"champion3.png","group":"champion","x":48,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"''The mind is a wondrous thing to tear apart.''<br><br>Sadistic and cunning, Thresh is a restless spirit who prides himself on tormenting mortals and breaking them with slow, excruciating inventiveness. His victims suffer far beyond the point of death, for Thresh wreaks agony upon their souls, imprisoning them in his lantern to torture for all eternity.","blurb":"''The mind is a wondrous thing to tear apart.''<br><br>Sadistic and cunning, Thresh is a restless spirit who prides himself on tormenting mortals and breaking them with slow, excruciating inventiveness. His victims suffer far beyond the point of death...","allytips":["Communication is key when making use of Thresh's lantern. Let your teammates know how you like to use it.","Death Sentence and Flay can be combined in either cast order for powerful combinations.","Thresh can collect souls without needing to kill units himself. Planning your map position to be near the most deaths will help to maximize soul collection."],"enemytips":["Thresh's Death Sentence has a long cast time. Watch for the cast to begin to take evasive actions.","Intentionally breaking a wall of The Box can allow a vulnerable ally to escape unscathed.","Thresh relies on collecting souls for a portion of his defense and damage. Try punishing him when he moves to collect them."]},"420":{"id":420,"key":"Illaoi","name":"Illaoi","title":"the Kraken Priestess","image":{"full":"Illaoi.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":384,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Illaoi's powerful physique is dwarfed only by her indomitable faith. As the prophet of the Great Kraken, she uses a huge, golden idol to rip her foes' spirits from their bodies and shatter their perception of reality. All who challenge the “Truth Bearer of Nagakabouros” soon discover Illaoi never battles alone—the god of the Serpent Isles fights by her side.","blurb":"Illaoi's powerful physique is dwarfed only by her indomitable faith. As the prophet of the Great Kraken, she uses a huge, golden idol to rip her foes' spirits from their bodies and shatter their perception of reality. All who challenge the “Truth Bearer...","allytips":["Tentacles are an immense source of power. Don't fight without them.","Spirits inherit their target's current health. If making a ","Vessel"," is your goal, try whittling your opponent's health down a bit first to make killing the spirit easier.","Leap of Faith is best used to follow-up a strong engage or when being engaged upon. Be careful about being the first one into a fight."],"enemytips":["Killing Tentacles whenever possible will make it much easier to win a fight against Illaoi.","When your spirit gets pulled out, fight back if you can. Dealing damage to Illaoi reduces the spirit's duration.","Avoid grouping up for Leap of Faith to reduce the number of Tentacles available to Illaoi."]},"421":{"id":421,"key":"RekSai","name":"Rek'Sai","title":"the Void Burrower","image":{"full":"RekSai.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":384,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"An apex predator, Rek'Sai is a merciless Void-spawn that tunnels beneath the ground to ambush and devour unsuspecting prey. Her insatiable hunger has laid waste to entire regions of the once-great empire of Shurima—merchants, traders, even armed caravans, will go hundreds of miles out of their way to avoid her and her offspring's hunting grounds. All know that once Rek'Sai is seen on the horizon, death from below is all but guaranteed.","blurb":"An apex predator, Rek'Sai is a merciless Void-spawn that tunnels beneath the ground to ambush and devour unsuspecting prey. Her insatiable hunger has laid waste to entire regions of the once-great empire of Shurima—merchants, traders, even armed...","allytips":["Keeping tunnels spread out across the map will ensure you have choices when you want to cast Void Rush.","Cast Burrow before travelling around the map to take advantage of the increased Movement Speed and the safety provided by Tremor Sense.","Tremor Sense can warn you of enemies closing in, and is particularly useful when entering enemy territory."],"enemytips":["If you see one of Rek'Sai's tunnels, briefly stand on one of the entrances to destroy it.","Rek'Sai's Furious Bite gains damage as she builds Fury. Be very careful around her when her Fury is full.","When Rek'Sai is near, she can see the position of you and your allies, but only if you're moving."]},"427":{"id":427,"key":"Ivern","name":"Ivern","title":"the Green Father","image":{"full":"Ivern.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":0,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Ivern Bramblefoot, known to many as the Green Father, is a peculiar half man, half tree who roams Runeterra's forests, cultivating life everywhere he goes. He knows the secrets of the natural world, and holds deep friendships with all things that grow, fly, and scuttle. Ivern wanders the wilderness, imparting strange wisdom to any he meets, enriching the forests, and occasionally entrusting loose-lipped butterflies with his secrets.","blurb":"Ivern Bramblefoot, known to many as the Green Father, is a peculiar half man, half tree who roams Runeterra's forests, cultivating life everywhere he goes. He knows the secrets of the natural world, and holds deep friendships with all things that grow...","allytips":["Try to help allies follow up a good Rootcaller hit with Triggerseed!","Use Brushmaker to set up future ambush spots!","Daisy can block skillshots and slow down enemies. Use her to peel for your teammates!"],"enemytips":["Ivern can be deceptively slippery. Be careful chasing him too far.","Ivern's brush has a long duration. Watch out for ambushes!","Be careful when fighting Ivern alone if he has Daisy ready to help!"]},"429":{"id":429,"key":"Kalista","name":"Kalista","title":"the Spear of Vengeance","image":{"full":"Kalista.png","sprite":"champion1.png","group":"champion","x":336,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"A specter of wrath and retribution, Kalista is the undying spirit of vengeance, an armored nightmare summoned from the Shadow Isles to hunt deceivers and traitors. The betrayed may cry out in blood to be avenged, but Kalista only answers those willing to pay with their very souls. Those who become the focus of Kalista's wrath should make their final peace, for any pact sealed with this grim hunter can only end with the cold, piercing fire of her soul-spears.","blurb":"A specter of wrath and retribution, Kalista is the undying spirit of vengeance, an armored nightmare summoned from the Shadow Isles to hunt deceivers and traitors. The betrayed may cry out in blood to be avenged, but Kalista only answers those willing...","allytips":["Rend is a valuable last hitting aid, since its cooldown resets if it kills a target. ","Entering a move order once to trigger Martial Poise will not clear Kalista's basic attack target.","Due to her passive, Kalista's Movement Speed is effectively increased by Attack Speed."],"enemytips":["Kalista's mobility is dependent upon attacking. This means it is low when she is outside of her attack range and that Attack Speed slows reduce the amount of distance she can cover in an engagement.","Kalista cannot cancel her basic attack wind up. While she is very mobile, this offers a window to land spells on her if you anticipate when she will begin attacking.","If you can break line of sight from Kalista, including through brush, her basic attacks will miss you, falling harmlessly to the ground."]},"432":{"id":432,"key":"Bard","name":"Bard","title":"the Wandering Caretaker","image":{"full":"Bard.png","sprite":"champion0.png","group":"champion","x":0,"y":48,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"A traveler from beyond the stars, Bard is an agent of serendipity who fights to maintain a balance where life can endure the indifference of chaos. Many Runeterrans sing songs that ponder his extraordinary nature, yet they all agree that the cosmic vagabond is drawn to artifacts of great magical power. Surrounded by a jubilant choir of helpful spirit meeps, it is impossible to mistake his actions as malevolent, as Bard always serves the greater good... in his own odd way.","blurb":"A traveler from beyond the stars, Bard is an agent of serendipity who fights to maintain a balance where life can endure the indifference of chaos. Many Runeterrans sing songs that ponder his extraordinary nature, yet they all agree that the cosmic...","allytips":["It's important to collect chimes to improve your meep's attacks, but don't neglect your lane partner! Try to make a big entrance by bringing an ally into the lane with you with Magical Journey.","Let your Caretaker's Shrines charge up - they heal for a lot more when at full power.","Don't forget that enemies can also use your Magical Journey doorways, and that your ultimate can also hit your allies!"],"enemytips":["Bard's opponents can also travel through his Magical Journey doorways. You can follow him, if you think it's safe.","You can crush Bard's healing shrines just by walking over them. Don't let his allies take them without a fight.","Bard's ultimate, Tempered Fate, affects allies, enemies, monsters, and turrets alike. Sometimes it can be to your advantage to jump into it!"]},"497":{"id":497,"key":"Rakan","name":"Rakan","title":"The Charmer","image":{"full":"Rakan.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":288,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"As mercurial as he is charming, Rakan is an infamous vastayan troublemaker and the greatest battle-dancer in Lhotlan tribal history. To the humans of the Ionian highlands, his name has long been synonymous with wild festivals, uncontrollable parties, and anarchic music. Few would suspect this energetic, traveling showman is also partner to the rebel Xayah, and is dedicated to her cause.","blurb":"As mercurial as he is charming, Rakan is an infamous vastayan troublemaker and the greatest battle-dancer in Lhotlan tribal history. To the humans of the Ionian highlands, his name has long been synonymous with wild festivals, uncontrollable parties...","allytips":["Rakan requires allies near him to make the most out of his tools.","Rakan's dash speeds increase with his movement speed. Use the extra speed to surprise your enemies!","Danger is as fun as you let it be."],"enemytips":["Rakan's movement abilities forecast their destination. Try to use this to your advantage.","Champions with crowd control that can be applied quickly excel against Rakan.","Catching Rakan with no allies around severely inhibits his mobility. Try to find him alone."]},"498":{"id":498,"key":"Xayah","name":"Xayah","title":"the Rebel","image":{"full":"Xayah.png","sprite":"champion4.png","group":"champion","x":384,"y":0,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Deadly and precise, Xayah is a vastayan revolutionary waging a personal war to save her people. She uses her speed, guile, and razor-sharp feather blades to cut down anyone who stands in her way. Xayah fights alongside her partner and lover, Rakan, ot protect their dwindling tribe, and restore their race to her vision of its former glory.","blurb":"Deadly and precise, Xayah is a vastayan revolutionary waging a personal war to save her people. She uses her speed, guile, and razor-sharp feather blades to cut down anyone who stands in her way. Xayah fights alongside her partner and lover, Rakan, ot...","allytips":["Xayah's attacks and abilities leave Feathers on the ground that she can later recall for massive area damage and control.","Xayah can use Featherstorm to dodge almost any ability while also creating a ton of Feathers. Try to utilize the offensive and defensive aspects of this ability."],"enemytips":["Xayah's Bladecaller will only root targets hit by 3 or more returning Feathers.","Long fights in the same area with Xayah will allow her to drop a lot of Feathers. Try to stay on the move!","Make sure you are ready when you go for the kill. Untargetability from Featherstorm can quickly turn an ambush in Xayah's favor."]},"516":{"id":516,"key":"Ornn","name":"Ornn","title":"The Fire below the Mountain","image":{"full":"Ornn.png","sprite":"champion2.png","group":"champion","x":96,"y":96,"w":48,"h":48},"lore":"Ornn is the Freljordian spirit of forging and craftsmanship. He works in the solitude of a massive smithy, hammered out from the lava caverns beneath the volcano Hearth-Home. There he stokes bubbling cauldrons of molten rock to purify ores and fashion items of unsurpassed quality. When other deities—especially Volibear—walk the earth and meddle in mortal affairs, Ornn arises to put these impetuous beings back in their place, either with his trusty hammer or the fiery power of the mountains themselves.","blurb":"Ornn is the Freljordian spirit of forging and craftsmanship. He works in the solitude of a massive smithy, hammered out from the lava caverns beneath the volcano Hearth-Home. There he stokes bubbling cauldrons of molten rock to purify ores and fashion...","allytips":["Learning build paths of items can help quickly select upgrades in lane.","Volcanic Rupture can be used to set up zoning areas to threaten enemies.","The order of your abilties matters! Try to optimize Brittle usage."],"enemytips":["Try to stay away from walls. Ornn is much less strong if he cannot stun you.","Attack Ornn to keep him from creating items in lane."]}},"keys":{"1":"Annie","2":"Olaf","3":"Galio","4":"TwistedFate","5":"XinZhao","6":"Urgot","7":"Leblanc","8":"Vladimir","9":"Fiddlesticks","10":"Kayle","11":"MasterYi","12":"Alistar","13":"Ryze","14":"Sion","15":"Sivir","16":"Soraka","17":"Teemo","18":"Tristana","19":"Warwick","20":"Nunu","21":"MissFortune","22":"Ashe","23":"Tryndamere","24":"Jax","25":"Morgana","26":"Zilean","27":"Singed","28":"Evelynn","29":"Twitch","30":"Karthus","31":"Chogath","32":"Amumu","33":"Rammus","34":"Anivia","35":"Shaco","36":"DrMundo","37":"Sona","38":"Kassadin","39":"Irelia","40":"Janna","41":"Gangplank","42":"Corki","43":"Karma","44":"Taric","45":"Veigar","48":"Trundle","50":"Swain","51":"Caitlyn","53":"Blitzcrank","54":"Malphite","55":"Katarina","56":"Nocturne","57":"Maokai","58":"Renekton","59":"JarvanIV","60":"Elise","61":"Orianna","62":"MonkeyKing","63":"Brand","64":"LeeSin","67":"Vayne","68":"Rumble","69":"Cassiopeia","72":"Skarner","74":"Heimerdinger","75":"Nasus","76":"Nidalee","77":"Udyr","78":"Poppy","79":"Gragas","80":"Pantheon","81":"Ezreal","82":"Mordekaiser","83":"Yorick","84":"Akali","85":"Kennen","86":"Garen","89":"Leona","90":"Malzahar","91":"Talon","92":"Riven","96":"KogMaw","98":"Shen","99":"Lux","101":"Xerath","102":"Shyvana","103":"Ahri","104":"Graves","105":"Fizz","106":"Volibear","107":"Rengar","110":"Varus","111":"Nautilus","112":"Viktor","113":"Sejuani","114":"Fiora","115":"Ziggs","117":"Lulu","119":"Draven","120":"Hecarim","121":"Khazix","122":"Darius","126":"Jayce","127":"Lissandra","131":"Diana","133":"Quinn","134":"Syndra","136":"AurelionSol","141":"Kayn","142":"Zoe","143":"Zyra","150":"Gnar","154":"Zac","157":"Yasuo","161":"Velkoz","163":"Taliyah","164":"Camille","201":"Braum","202":"Jhin","203":"Kindred","222":"Jinx","223":"TahmKench","236":"Lucian","238":"Zed","240":"Kled","245":"Ekko","254":"Vi","266":"Aatrox","267":"Nami","268":"Azir","412":"Thresh","420":"Illaoi","421":"RekSai","427":"Ivern","429":"Kalista","432":"Bard","497":"Rakan","498":"Xayah","516":"Ornn"},"format":"full","type":"champion","version":"7.23.1"}